Dragon : A dragon is a magical legendary creature that appears in the folklore of multiple cultures worldwide. Beliefs about dragons vary considerably through regions, but dragons in Western cultures since the High Middle Ages have often been depicted as winged, horned, and capable of breathing fire. Dragons in eastern cultures are usually depicted as wingless, four-legged, serpentine creatures with above-average intelligence. Commonalities between dragons' traits are often a hybridization of feline, reptilian, mammalian, and avian features.
Dragon : The word dragon entered the English language in the early 13th century from Old French dragon, which, in turn, comes from Latin draco (genitive draconis), meaning "huge serpent, dragon", from Ancient Greek δράκων, drákōn (genitive δράκοντος, drákontos) "serpent". The Greek and Latin term referred to any great serpent, not necessarily mythological. The Greek word δράκων is most likely derived from the Greek verb δέρκομαι (dérkomai) meaning "I see", the aorist form of which is ἔδρακον (édrakon). This is thought to have referred to something with a "deadly glance", or unusually bright or "sharp" eyes, or because a snake's eyes appear to be always open; each eye actually sees through a big transparent scale in its eyelids, which are permanently shut. The Greek word probably derives from an Indo-European base *derḱ- meaning "to see"; the Sanskrit root दृश् (dr̥ś-) also means "to see".
Dragon : Draconic creatures appear in virtually all cultures around the globe and the earliest attested reports of draconic creatures resemble giant snakes. Draconic creatures are first described in the mythologies of the ancient Near East and appear in ancient Mesopotamian art and literature. Stories about storm-gods slaying giant serpents occur throughout nearly all Near Eastern and Indo-European mythologies. Famous prototypical draconic creatures include the mušḫuššu of ancient Mesopotamia; Apep in Egyptian mythology; Vṛtra in the Rigveda; the Leviathan in the Hebrew Bible; Grand'Goule in the Poitou region in France; Python, Ladon, Wyvern and the Lernaean Hydra in Greek mythology; Kulshedra in Albanian Mythology; Unhcegila in Lakota mythology; Quetzalcoatl in Aztec Culture; Jörmungandr, Níðhöggr, and Fafnir in Norse mythology; the dragon from Beowulf; and aži and az in ancient Persian mythology, closely related to another mythological figure, called Aži Dahaka or Zahhak. Nonetheless, scholars dispute where the idea of a dragon originates from and a wide variety of hypotheses have been proposed. In his book An Instinct for Dragons (2000), David E. Jones (anthropologist) suggests a hypothesis that humans, like monkeys, have inherited instinctive reactions to snakes, large cats, and birds of prey. He cites a study which found that approximately 39 people in a hundred are afraid of snakes and notes that fear of snakes is especially prominent in children, even in areas where snakes are rare. The earliest attested dragons all resemble snakes or have snakelike attributes. Jones therefore concludes that dragons appear in nearly all cultures because humans have an innate fear of snakes and other animals that were major predators of humans' primate ancestors. Dragons are usually said to reside in "dark caves, deep pools, wild mountain reaches, sea bottoms, haunted forests", all places which would have been fraught with danger for early human ancestors. In her book The First Fossil Hunters: Dinosaurs, Mammoths, and Myth in Greek and Roman Times (2000), Adrienne Mayor argues that some stories of dragons may have been inspired by ancient discoveries of fossils belonging to dinosaurs and other prehistoric animals. She argues that the dragon lore of northern India may have been inspired by "observations of oversized, extraordinary bones in the fossilbeds of the Siwalik Hills below the Himalayas" and that ancient Greek artistic depictions of the Monster of Troy may have been influenced by fossils of Samotherium, an extinct species of giraffe whose fossils are common in the Mediterranean region. In China, a region where fossils of large prehistoric animals are common, these remains are frequently identified as "dragon bones" and are commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine. Mayor, however, is careful to point out that not all stories of dragons and giants are inspired by fossils and notes that Scandinavia has many stories of dragons and sea monsters, but has long "been considered barren of large fossils." In one of her later books, she states that, "Many dragon images around the world were based on folk knowledge or exaggerations of living reptiles, such as Komodo dragons, Gila monsters, iguanas, alligators, or, in California, alligator lizards, though this still fails to account for the Scandinavian legends, as no such animals (historical or otherwise) have ever been found in this region." Robert Blust in The Origin of Dragons (2000) argues that, like many other creations of traditional cultures, dragons are largely explicable as products of a convergence of rational pre-scientific speculation about the world of real events. In this case, the event is the natural mechanism governing rainfall and drought, with particular attention paid to the phenomenon of the rainbow.
Dragon : Dragons and dragon motifs are featured in many works of modern literature, particularly within the fantasy genre. As early as the eighteenth century, critical thinkers such as Denis Diderot were already asserting that too much literature had been published on dragons: "There are already in books all too many fabulous stories of dragons". In Lewis Carroll's classic children's novel Through the Looking-Glass (1871), one of the inset poems describes the Jabberwock, a kind of dragon. Carroll's illustrator John Tenniel, a famous political cartoonist, humorously showed the Jabberwock with the waistcoat, buck teeth, and myopic eyes of a Victorian university lecturer, such as Carroll himself. In works of comedic children's fantasy, dragons often fulfill the role of a magic fairy tale helper. In such works, rather than being frightening as they are traditionally portrayed, dragons are instead represented as harmless, benevolent, and inferior to humans. They are sometimes shown living in contact with humans, or in isolated communities of only dragons. Though popular in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, "such comic and idyllic stories" began to grow increasingly rare after the 1960s, due to demand for more serious children's literature. One of the most iconic modern dragons is Smaug from J. R. R. Tolkien's classic novel, The Hobbit. Dragons also appear in the best-selling Harry Potter series of children's novels by J. K. Rowling. Other prominent works depicting dragons include Anne McCaffrey's Dragonriders of Pern, Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea Cycle, George R. R. Martin's series A Song of Ice and Fire, and Christopher Paolini's The Inheritance Cycle. Sandra Martina Schwab writes, "With a few exceptions, including McCaffrey's Pern novels and the 2002 film Reign of Fire, dragons seem to fit more into the medievalized setting of fantasy literature than into the more technological world of science fiction. Indeed, they have been called the emblem of fantasy. The hero's fight against the dragon emphasizes and celebrates his masculinity, whereas revisionist fantasies of dragons and dragon-slaying often undermine traditional gender roles. In children's literature (such as Cressida Cowell's How to Train Your Dragon series) the friendly dragon may become a powerful ally in battling the child's fears." The popular role-playing game system Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) makes heavy use of dragons.
Dragon : Media related to Dragons at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of dragon at Wiktionary Quotations related to Dragons at Wikiquote
Seraph : A seraph (; pl.: seraphim ) is a celestial or heavenly being originating in Ancient Judaism. The term plays a role in subsequent Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Tradition places seraphim in the highest rank in Christian angelology and in the fifth rank of ten in the Jewish angelic hierarchy. A seminal passage in the Book of Isaiah (Isaiah 6:1–8) used the term to describe six-winged beings that fly around the Throne of God crying "holy, holy, holy". This throne scene, with its triple invocation of holiness, profoundly influenced subsequent theology, literature and art. Its influence is frequently seen in works depicting angels, heaven and apotheosis. Seraphim are mentioned as celestial beings in the semi-canonical Book of Enoch and the canonical Book of Revelation.
Seraph : In Hebrew, the word saraph means "burning", and is used seven times throughout the text of the Hebrew Bible as a noun, usually to denote "serpent", twice in the Book of Numbers, once in the Book of Deuteronomy, and four times in the Book of Isaiah. The reason why the word for "burning" was also used to denote a serpent is not universally agreed upon; it may be due to a certain snake species' fiery colors, or perhaps the burning sensation left by its venomous bite. Regardless, its plural form, seraphim, occurs in both Numbers and Isaiah, but only in Isaiah is it used to denote an angelic being; likewise, these angels are referred to only as the plural seraphim – Isaiah later uses the singular saraph to describe a "fiery flying serpent", in line with the other uses of the term throughout the Tanakh. There is emerging consensus that the motifs used to display seraphs in Hyksos-era Canaan had their original sources in Egyptian uraeus iconography. In Egyptian iconography, the uraeus was used as a symbol of sovereignty, royalty, divinity and divine authority, and later iconography often showed uraei with wings. In the early monarchic period of Israel and Judah, Egyptian motifs were evidently borrowed by the Israelites en masse, as a plethora of personal seals belonging to classes ranging from commonfolk to royalty have been discovered, which incorporate several pieces of ancient Egyptian iconography, including the winged sun, ankh, the hedjet and deshret crowns of Upper and Lower Egypt, scarabs, and the uraeus cobra. These uraei often had four wings, as opposed to the Egyptian standard which only gave them two. These images have been connected with the seraphim angels associated with Isaiah's visions, or perhaps more directly to the aforementioned "fiery flying serpent", but this continues to be debated – and an image of serpentine seraphim clashes with Isaiah's own vision, which clearly envisioned seraphim with heads, legs, and arms – although, on the second matter, some scholars have proposed that the covered "feet" of the seraphim should be identified as genitals, as "feet" are often used in the Hebrew Bible as a euphemism for the penis. The vision in Isaiah Chapter 6 of seraphim in an idealized version of Solomon's Temple represents the sole instance in the Hebrew Bible of this word being used to describe celestial beings. "... I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphim: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly." (Isaiah 6:1–3) And one cried to another, "Holy, holy, holy, is YHWH of hosts: the whole earth is full of His glory." (verses 2–3) One seraph carries out an act of ritual purification for the prophet by touching his lips with a live coal from the altar (verses 6–7) "And he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged." The text describes the "seraphim" as winged celestial beings with a fiery passion for doing God's good work. Notwithstanding the wording of the text itself, at least one Hebrew scholar claims that in the Hebrew Bible the seraphim do not have the status of angels, and that it is only in later sources (like De Coelesti Hierarchia or Summa Theologiae) that they are considered to be a division of the divine messengers. Seraphim appear in the 2nd-century BC Book of Enoch, where they are mentioned, in conjunction with cherubim, as the heavenly creatures standing nearest to the throne of God. In non-biblical sources they are sometimes called the Akyəst (Ge'ez: አክይስት "serpents", "dragons"; an alternate term for Hell). In the Second Book of Enoch, two classes of celestial beings are mentioned alongside the seraphim and cherubim, known as the phoenixes and the chalkydri (Ancient Greek: χαλκύδραι khalkýdrai, compound of χαλκός khalkós "brass, copper" + ὕδρα hýdra "hydra", "water-serpent"—lit. "brazen hydras", "copper serpents"). Both are described as "flying elements of the sun" that reside in either the 4th or 7th heaven, who have twelve wings and burst into song at sunrise. In the Book of Revelation (4:4–8), the beasts are described as being forever in God's presence and praising him: "[A]nd they rest not day and night, saying, 'Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.'" This account differs slightly from the account of Isaiah, stating in the eighth verse, "And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they were full of eyes within". They appear also in the Gnostic text, On the Origin of the World.
Seraph : The 12th-century scholar Maimonides placed the seraphim in the fifth of ten ranks of angels in his exposition of the Jewish angelic hierarchy. In Kabbalah, the seraphim are the higher angels of the World of Beriah ("Creation", first created realm, divine understanding), whose understanding of their distance from the absolute divinity of Atziluth causes their continual "burning up" in self-nullification. Through this they ascend to God, and return to their place. Below them in the World of Yetzirah ("Formation", archetypal creation, divine emotions) are the Hayot angels of Ezekiel's vision, who serve God with self-aware instinctive emotions ("face of a lion, ox, eagle"). Seraphim are part of the angelarchy of modern Orthodox Judaism. Isaiah's vision is repeated several times in daily Jewish services, including at Kedushah prayer as part of the repetition of the Amidah, and in several other prayers as well. Conservative Judaism retains the traditional doctrines regarding angels and includes references to them in the liturgy, although a literal belief in angels is by no means universal among adherents. Adherents of Reform Judaism and Reconstructionist Judaism generally take images of angels as symbolic. A Judean seal from the 8th century BCE depicts them as flying asp (snake), yet having human characteristics, as encountered by Isaiah in his commissioning as a prophet.
Seraph : Medieval Christian theology places seraphim in the highest choir of the angelic hierarchy. They are the caretakers of God's throne, continuously singing "holy, holy, holy". Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite in his Celestial Hierarchy (vii), drew upon the Book of Isaiah in fixing the fiery nature of seraphim in the medieval imagination. Seraphim in his view helped God maintain perfect order and are not limited to chanting the trisagion. Taking his cue as well from writings in the Rabbinic tradition, the author gave an etymology for the Seraphim as "those who kindle or make hot" The name seraphim clearly indicates their ceaseless and eternal revolution about Divine Principles, their heat and keenness, the exuberance of their intense, perpetual, tireless activity, and their elevative and energetic assimilation of those below, kindling them and firing them to their own heat, and wholly purifying them by a burning and all-consuming flame; and by the unhidden, unquenchable, changeless, radiant and enlightening power, dispelling and destroying the shadows of darkness Origen wrote in On First Principles that the Seraphim, in the Book of Isaiah, are the physical representation of the Christ and the Holy Spirit. His rationale comes from the idea that nothing "can wholly know the beginnings of all things and the ends of the universe" aside from God. Origen concludes this section in writing about the Seraphim as beings that have the knowledge of God revealed to them which elevates the role of the Seraphim to divine levels: Nevertheless whatever it is that these powers may have learned through the revelation of the Son of God and of the Holy Spirit-and they will certainly be able to acquire a great deal of knowledge, and the higher ones much more than the lower-still it is impossible for them to comprehend everything; for it is written, 'The more part of God's works are secret. This quote suggests that Origen believed the Seraphim are revealed this knowledge because of their anointed status as Son of God and the Holy Spirit. He was later criticized for making such claims and labeled a heretic by the Christian church. However, his theory about the Seraphim, as referred to in Isaiah, would be reflected in other early Christian literature, as well as early Christian belief through the second century. Thomas Aquinas in his Summa Theologiae offers a description of the nature of seraphim: The name "Seraphim" does not come from charity only, but from the excess of charity, expressed by the word ardor or fire. Hence Dionysius (Coel. Hier. vii) expounds the name "Seraphim" according to the properties of fire, containing an excess of heat. Now in fire we may consider three things. First, the movement which is upwards and continuous. This signifies that they are borne inflexibly towards God. Secondly, the active force which is "heat," which is not found in fire simply, but exists with a certain sharpness, as being of most penetrating action, and reaching even to the smallest things, and as it were, with superabundant fervor; whereby is signified the action of these angels, exercised powerfully upon those who are subject to them, rousing them to a like fervor, and cleansing them wholly by their heat. Thirdly we consider in fire the quality of clarity, or brightness; which signifies that these angels have in themselves an inextinguishable light, and that they also perfectly enlighten others. The seraphim took on a mystic role in Giovanni Pico della Mirandola's Oration on the Dignity of Man (1487), the epitome of Renaissance humanism. Pico took the fiery Seraphim—"they burn with the fire of charity"—as the highest models of human aspiration: "impatient of any second place, let us emulate dignity and glory. And, if we will it, we shall be inferior to them in nothing", the young Pico announced, in the first flush of optimistic confidence in the human capacity that is the coinage of the Renaissance. "In the light of intelligence, meditating upon the Creator in His work, and the work in its Creator, we shall be resplendent with the light of the Cherubim. If we burn with love for the Creator only, his consuming fire will quickly transform us into the flaming likeness of the Seraphim." Bonaventure, a Franciscan theologian who was a contemporary of Aquinas, uses the six wings of the seraph as an important analogical construct in his mystical work The Journey of the Mind to God. Christian theology developed an idea of seraphim as beings of pure light who enjoy direct communication with God.
Seraph : The Bearers of the Throne (ḥamlat al-arsh) are comparable to seraphim, described with six wings and four faces according to tradition. No description of their features is given in the Quran, only that their number is eight in 69:17. Their affiliation is not always clear and sometimes their role is swapped with the cherubim. In a book called Book of the Wonders of Creation and the peculiarities of Existing Things, these angels rank the highest, followed by the spirit, the archangels and then the cherubim. The Bearers of the Throne are entrusted with continuously worshipping God. Unlike the messenger angels, they remain in the heavenly realm and do not enter the world. Seraphim (Sarufiyyun or Musharifin) are directly mentioned in a hadith from Al-Tirmidhi about a conversation between Muhammad and God, during the Night Journey, concerning what is between the Heavens and the Earth, often interpreted as a reference to the "Exalted assembly" disputing the creation of Adam in Surah Ṣād 38:69. In Islamic traditions, they are often portrayed in zoomorphic forms. They are described as resembling different creatures: An eagle, a bull, a lion and a human. Other hadiths describes them with six wings and four faces. While according to a hadith transmitted from At-Targhib wat-Tarhib authored by ʻAbd al-ʻAẓīm ibn ʻAbd al-Qawī al-Mundhirī, the bearers of the throne were angels who were shaped like a rooster, with their feet on the earth and their nape supporting the Throne of God in the highest sky. a number modern Islamic scholars from Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic University, and other institutes of Yemen and Mauritania also agreed the soundness of this hadith by quoting the commentary from Ibn Abi al-Izz who supported this narrative. Al-Razi identifies the seraphim with the angels around God's throne, next to the cherubim. They circulate the throne and keep praising God. Ibn Kathir, on the other hand, identifies the seraphim with those who carry the throne, the highest order of angels.
Seraph : Sarpa, also called Naga , serpents and their human forms in Hinduism List of angels in theology Bearers of the Throne – Group of angels in Islam Fiery flying serpent – Biblical creature Great chain of being – Cosmological hierarchy of all matter and life Royal Order of the Seraphim – Swedish order of chivalryPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Rolls-Royce Silver Seraph – car modelPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Serpents in the Bible Tetramorph – Symbolic arrangement of four differing elements Thrones – Class of angels Wepset – Ancient Egyptian deity
Seraph : Jewish Encyclopedia: "Seraphim" The Seraphim Mosaic in Hagia Sophia Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Seraphim" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Dragon (zodiac) : The dragon (simplified Chinese: 龙; traditional Chinese: 龍; pinyin: lóng; Jyutping: lung; Cantonese Yale: lùhng) is the fifth of the 12-year cycle of animals that appear in the Chinese zodiac related to the Chinese calendar. The Year of the Dragon is associated with the Earthly Branch symbol 辰 (pinyin: chén). It has been proposed that the Earthly Branch character may have been associated with scorpions; it may have symbolized the star Antares. In the Buddhist calendar used in Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka, the dragon is replaced by the nāga. In the Gurung zodiac, the dragon is replaced by the eagle. In the Old Turkic calendar it is replaced by a fish or crocodile. Early Persian translations of the medieval period change the dragon to a sea serpent, although in current times it is generally referred to as whale. During China's Cultural Revolution, there was an attempt to replace the dragon with the giant panda; however, the movement was short lived.
Dragon (zodiac) : People born within these date ranges can be said to have been born in the Year of the Dragon, while bearing the following elemental sign: There are typically marked spikes in the birth rates of countries that use the Chinese zodiac or places with substantial Chinese populations during the Year of the Dragon, because these births are considered to be lucky and have desirable characteristics that supposedly lead to better life outcomes. The relatively recent phenomenon of planning a child's birth in a Year of the Dragon has led to hospital capacity issues and even an uptick in infant mortality rates toward the end of these years due to strained neonatal resources.
Dragon (zodiac) : Cycle (trine group): Dragon needs Monkey, Monkey needs Rat, Rat needs Dragon; It is opposed to or rivals the Dog.
Dragon (zodiac) : Media related to Dragon (zodiac) at Wikimedia Commons
Bašmu : Bašmu or Bashmu (Akkadian: 𒈲𒊮𒉣𒇬, romanized: bašmu; cuneiform: MUŠ.ŠÀ.TÙR or MUŠ.ŠÀ.TUR, lit. "Venomous Snake") was an ancient Mesopotamian mythological creature, a horned snake with two forelegs and wings. It was also the Akkadian name of the Babylonian constellation (MUL.DINGIR.MUŠ) equivalent to the Greek Hydra. The Sumerian terms ušum (portrayed with feet, see Ninurta's Dragon) and muš-šà-tùr ("birth goddess snake", portrayed without feet) may represent differing iconographic types or different demons. It is first attested by a 22nd-century BC cylinder inscription at Gudea.
Bašmu : In the Angim, or "Ninurta's return to Nippur", it was identified as one of the eleven "warriors" (ur-sag) defeated by Ninurta. Bašmu was created in the sea and was "sixty double-miles long", according to a fragmentary Assyrian myth which recounts that it devoured fish, birds, wild asses, and men, securing the disapproval of the gods who sent Nergal or Palil ("snake charmer") to vanquish it. It was one of the eleven monsters created by Tiamat in the Enuma Elish creation myth. It had "six mouths, seven tongues and seven ...-s on its belly".
Bašmu : Hydra in Greek and Roman myth Seven-headed serpent in Sumerian myth == References ==
Outline of A Song of Ice and Fire franchise : The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire media franchise: A Song of Ice and Fire – series of epic fantasy novels by the American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. A Song of Ice and Fire takes place on the fictional continents Westeros and Essos. The point of view of each chapter in the story is a limited perspective of a range of characters growing from nine, in the first novel, to thirty-one by the fifth. The works and their setting have inspired a large media franchise. Among the many derived works are several prequel novellas, a TV series, a comic book adaptation, and several card, board, and video games.
Outline of A Song of Ice and Fire franchise : A Song of Ice and Fire is an example of all of the following: Fiction – form of narrative which deals, in part or in whole, with events that are not factual, but rather, imaginary and invented by its author(s). Although fiction often describes a major branch of literary work, it is also applied to theatrical, cinematic, and musical work. A series of novels – set or series of novels which share common themes, characters, or settings, but where each novel has its own title and free-standing storyline, and can thus be read independently or out of sequence. Novels are a form of fiction. Fantasy fiction – fiction genre that uses magic or other supernatural elements as a main plot element, theme, or setting. High fantasy fiction – subgenre of fantasy, defined either by its setting in an imaginary world or by the epic stature of its characters, themes, and plot. a fantasy world – fictional setting comprising an entire planet, used in fantasy fiction, for example in novels and games. Typical worlds involve magic or magical abilities and often, but not always, either a medieval or futuristic theme. Some worlds may be an entirely independent world set in another universe. See World of A Song of Ice and Fire. a fictional setting – place that exists only in fiction and not in reality. Writers may create and describe such places to serve as the backdrop for their fictional works. a fictional universe – a constructed world – Developing an imaginary setting with coherent qualities such as a history, geography, and ecology is a key task for many science fiction and fantasy writers. Worldbuilding often involves the creation of maps, a backstory, and people for the world. Constructed worlds can enrich the backstory and history of fictional works, and can be created for personal amusement or for specific creative endeavors such as novels, video games, or role-playing games. Intellectual property – creations of the mind, protected by copyright. Intangible assets, such as musical, literary, and artistic works. The first volume of the series, A Game of Thrones, was published (and copyrighted) in 1996. a media franchise – collection of media whereby intellectual property (IP) is licensed from an original work of media (usually a work of fiction), such as a film, a work of literature, a television program or a video game, to other parties or partners for commercial exploitation. A property can be exploited across a range of mediums and by a variety of industries for merchandising purposes. A Song of Ice and Fire has been marketed in the form of books, a television series, a comic book, games, etc. See franchises originating in literary works.
Outline of A Song of Ice and Fire franchise : Sexposition Outline of fantasy Outline of Narnia Outline of Middle Earth
Outline of A Song of Ice and Fire franchise : George R. R. Martin's Official Website So Spake Martin, Collection of statements, correspondences and interviews by George R. R. Martin. A Song of Ice and Fire series listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Song of Ice and Fire at the Internet Book List A Song of Ice and Fire at Curlie
Fiery flying serpent : The fiery flying serpent (Hebrew: שָׂרָף מְעוֹפֵף‎ sārāf mə‘ōfēf; Greek: ἔκγονα αὐτῶν ἐξελεύσονται; Latin: Absorbens volucrem) is a creature mentioned in the Book of Isaiah in the Tanakh. The term translated as "fiery serpent", saraph, appears elsewhere in the Book of Isaiah to signify the seraphim, the singular form of which is also saraph.
Fiery flying serpent : Ancient Israelite seals often co-opted symbology from neighbouring ancient Egypt, and as such, archaeologists have discovered numerous seals which show a uraeus cobra with 4 wings. This, coupled with the fact that these cobras diverge from the typical Egyptian iconography which depicted them with only 2 wings, have been connected by some to the "fiery flying serpents" mentioned in Isaiah, or even to the more specific seraphim seen elsewhere in the text. This identification, however, is not universally accepted. Assuming the fiery flying serpent to have a biological identification, Ronald Millett and John Pratt identify it with the Israeli saw-scale viper or carpet viper (Echis coloratus) based on several clues from the written sources, such as that the serpents inhabit the Arava Valley, prefer rocky terrain, and are deadly venomous. A Roman account dated 22 AD about the deserts of Arabia indicates the presence of the saw-scale viper, reporting that "there are snakes also of a dark red color, a span in length, which spring up as high as a man's waist, and whose bite is incurable." Other candidates include desert horned viper (and close relatives), the desert black snake or black desert cobra, and the nematode dracunculus medinensis.
Fiery flying serpent : Chalkydri Dragon Feathered Serpent John 3 Seraph Serpents in the Bible == References ==
Lou Carcolh : Lou Carcolh, or the Carcolh, is a mythical beast from French folklore. It's described as a large, slimy, snail-like serpent with hairy tentacles and a large shell. It is said to live in a cavern beneath Hastingues, a town in the Les Landes region in southwestern France. The carcolh's slime could sometimes be seen long before the creature itself arrived. Nobody dared to approach the creature, as unwary persons would be grabbed by its tentacles, dragged into its cave and devoured whole. The Carcolh is a nickname given to the city of Hastingues, in the French department of Landes, due to its situation on a rounded-shape hill. Furthermore, the men of Hastingues used to say, as a pleasant warning to young and pretty women, "the carcolh will catch you!".
Lou Carcolh : Rose, Carol. Giants, Monsters, and Dragons: An Encyclopedia of Folklore, Legend, and Myth. ABC-CLIO, Inc. ISBN 0-87436-988-6.
Lou Carcolh : Lou Carcolh on GodsandMonsters.info
Labbu : The Labbu Myth is an ancient Mesopotamian creation epic. Only one copy of it is known from the Library of Ashurbanipal. It is commonly dated no later than the Old Babylonian period, although recent work suggests a later composition. It is a folktale possibly of the Diyala region, since the later version seems to feature the god Tišpak as its protagonist and may be an allegory representing his replacement of the chthonic serpent-god Ninazu at the top of the pantheon of the city of Eshnunna. This part is played by Nergal in the earlier version. It was possibly a precursor of the Enûma Eliš, where Labbu – meaning "Raging One" or "lion", was the prototype of Tiamat and of the Canaanite tale of Baal fighting Yamm. Other similar texts include the Myth of Anzu and KAR 6. Depending on the reading of the first character in the antagonist's name (always written as KAL and may be read as: Lab, Kal, Rib or Tan), the text might also be called The Slaying of Labbu or Kalbu Myth. This polyvalence of cuneiform readings allows a possible connection to the biblical monster Rahab – more on this below.
Labbu : The following translation of the Labbu Myth comes from Ayali-Darshan 2020.The cities became dilapidated, the lands [...] The people decreased in number [...] To their lamentation [... did] no[t ...] On their cry, he has no [pity]. 'Who [created] the serpent (MUŠ)?' 'Sea [created] the serpent, Enlil in heaven designed [his shape]: His length is 50 bēru (-measure), [his width] one bēru, Half a nindanu (-measure) his mouth, one ninandu [his ...], One nindanu the span of [his] e[ars]. For five nindanu he [...] birds, In the water, nine amma (-measure deep) he drags [...] He raises his tail [...]'. All the gods of heaven [were afraid] In heaven, the gods bowed down before [...] And the moon's [face] was darkened at its edges. 'Who will go and [kill] Labb[u]? (Who) will sa[ve ...] the broad land And exercis[e] kingship [...]?' 'Go, Tišpak, k[ill] Labbu! Save the broad land [...]! And exercise kingship [...]!' You have sent me, O lord, [to kill] the offspring of the River (nāri), (But) I do not know Labbu's [countenance]. [...] He opened his mouth and [spoke] to [...]: 'Make the clouds (and) the terrible storm arise [...] [Hold] in front of you the seal (of) your neck, Shoot (it) and ki[ll] Labbu!' (Then) he made the clouds (and) the terrible storm [...] The seal (of) his neck (he held) in front of him, He shot (it) and [killed] Labbu. For three years, three months, day and ni[ght] the blood of Labbu flowed [...].
Labbu : Extant in two very fragmentary copies; an Old Babylonian one and a later Assyrian from the Library of Ashurbanipal, which have no complete surviving lines – the Labbu Myth relates the tale of a possibly leonine but certainly serpentine monster: a fifty-league long Bašmu (mušba-aš-ma) or sixty-league long Mušḫuššu (MUŠ-ḪUŠ), depending on the version and reconstruction of the text. The opening of the Old Babylonian version recalls that of The Epic of Gilgamesh: The cities sigh, the people... The people decreased in number,... For their lamentation there was none to... The vast dimensions of Labbu are described. The sea (tāmtu) has given birth to the dragon (line 6). The fragmentary line: "He raises his tail..." identifies him according to Neil Forsyth as a precursor of a later adversary; the dragon of Revelation 12:4, whose tail swept a third of the stars of heaven, and cast them down to earth. In the later version, Labbu is created by the god Enlil who "drew [a picture of] the dragon in the sky" to wipe out humanity whose raucous noise has been disturbing his sleep, a recurring motif in Babylonian creation epics. Whether this refers to the Milky Way (Heidel 1963) or a comet (Forsyth 1989) is not clear. The gods are terrified by the apparition of this monstrous creature and appeal to the moon god Sin or the goddess Aruru who addresses Tišpak/Nergal to counter the threat and "exercise kingship", presumably over Eshnunna, as a reward. Tišpak/Nergal raises objections to tangling with the serpent but – after a gap in the narrative, a god whose name is not preserved provides guidance on military strategy. A storm erupts and the victor, who may or may not be Tišpak or Nergal, in accordance with the advice given, fires an arrow to slay the beast. The fragments of the epic are not part of a cosmogony as noted by Forsyth; since the cities of men are already in existence when the narrative takes place. Frans Wiggerman interpreted the myth's function as a way of justifying Tishpak's ascension to status of king, "as a consequence of his 'liberation' of the nation, sanctioned by the decision of a divine council."
Labbu : Rahab is one of the various names for the primordial "chaos dragons" mentioned in the Bible (cf. Leviathan, Tiamat/Tehom, and Tannin). As Cuneiform is a complex syllabary, with some signs functioning as logograms, some signs representing multiple phonetic values, and some representing sumerograms, multiple readings are possible. The first syllable of Rahab, written with the sign KAL, might also be read as /reb/. Thus, Labbu could have also been called Rebbu (<*reb-bu), highly resembling the Hebrew monster mentioned in the BIble.
Draconcopedes : The medieval Latin term draconcopedes refers to a beast mentioned in some medieval zoologies. Vincent of Beauvais (c. 1190–1264) describes this beast as a vast serpentine creature with the head, face and breasts of a woman. In the Speculum naturale, he states: Draconcopedes serpentes magni sunt, et potentes, facies virgineas habentes humanis similes, in draconum corpus desinentes ("Draconcopedes are great and powerful serpents, with maidenly faces like those of humans, ending in the body of a dragon"). Albertus Magnus (c. 1200–1280) states in his On Animals: The draconcopedes are what the Greeks call a large serpent of the third class and of the dragon genus which, they say, has the maidenly face of an unbearded man. Charles Dickens, in his Household Words, Volume 12, 1855, cites Bede in describing the draconcopedes as "the serpent with a women's head which tempted Eve."
Draconcopedes : === Notes ===
World of A Song of Ice and Fire : The fictional world in which the A Song of Ice and Fire novels by George R. R. Martin take place is divided into several continents, known collectively as The Known World. Most of the story takes place on the continent of Westeros and in a large political entity known as the Seven Kingdoms. Those kingdoms are spread across nine regions: the North, the Iron Islands, the Riverlands, the Vale, the Westerlands, the Stormlands, the Reach, the Crownlands, and Dorne. A massive wall of ice and old magic separates the Seven Kingdoms from the largely unmapped area to the north. The vast continent of Essos is located east of Westeros, across the Narrow Sea. The closest foreign nations to Westeros are the Free Cities, a collection of nine independent city-states along the western edge of Essos. The lands along the southern coastline of Essos are called the Lands of the Summer Sea and include Slaver's Bay and the ruins of Valyria. The latter is the former home of the ancestors of House Targaryen. To the south of Essos are the continents of Sothoryos and Ulthos, which in the narrative are largely unexplored. The planet experiences erratic seasons of unpredictable duration that can last for many years. At the beginning of A Song of Ice and Fire, Westeros has enjoyed a decade-long summer, and many fear that an even longer and harsher winter will follow. George R. R. Martin set the Ice and Fire story in an alternative world to Earth, a "secondary world". Martin has also suggested that the world may be larger than the real world planet Earth. The Ice and Fire narrative is set in a post-magic world where people no longer believe in supernatural things such as the Others. Although the characters understand the natural aspects of their world, they do not know or understand its magical elements. Religion, though, has a significant role in the lives of people, and the characters practice many different religions.
World of A Song of Ice and Fire : A Game of Thrones, the first installment of the A Song of Ice and Fire series, has two maps of Westeros. Each new book has added one or two maps so that, as of A Dance with Dragons, seven maps of the fictional world are available in the books. Martin said in 2003 that complete world maps were not made available so that readers may better identify with people of the real Middle Ages who were uneducated about distant places. He also did not "subscribe to the theory put forth in The Tough Guide To Fantasyland ... that eventually the characters must visit every place shown on The Map." He conceded, however, that readers may be able to piece together a world map by the end of the series. He was intentionally vague about the size of the Ice and Fire world, omitting a scale on the maps to discourage prediction of travel lengths based on measured distances. A new map artist was used in A Dance with Dragons so that the maps are available in two versions by James Sinclair and Jeffrey L. Ward, depending on the book. The old maps were redone to match the style of the new ones. A set of foldout maps was published on October 30, 2012, as The Lands of Ice and Fire (ISBN 978-0345538543). The illustrator and cartographer Jonathan Roberts drew the maps, based on drafts by Martin. The twelve maps in the set are entitled "The Known World", "The West", "Central Essos", "The East", "Westeros", "Beyond The Wall", "The Free Cities", "Slaver's Bay", "The Dothraki Sea", "King's Landing", "Braavos", and "Journeys". The latter tracks the paths taken by the novels' characters.
World of A Song of Ice and Fire : The story takes place primarily on an elongated continent called Westeros, which is roughly the size of South America. The continent is home to the Seven Kingdoms, also known as "the Realm" or the "Sunset Kingdom", located to the south side of the Wall, a massive man-made ice wall (allegedly fused with magic) 700 feet in height and spanning east–west for 300 miles from coast to coast. The Seven Kingdoms are further divided into the so-called "North" and "South" by a swamp-rich isthmus called the Neck. The land north of the Wall still makes up a large chunk (being roughly the size of Canada) of Westeros, but remains largely unmapped and unexplored, especially the ice field region north and west of a massive mountain range called the Frostfangs, which marks the farthest geographic limit of human settlements. The northern extent of the continent is therefore unknown, although thought to be continuous with a polar ice cap north of the Shivering Sea known as the White Waste. At the novel's beginning, the majority of Westeros is united under the rule of a single king, whose seat is the "Iron Throne" in the city of King's Landing. The king has a large number of minor direct vassals in area known as the Crownlands, surrounding King's Landing; while each of the other regions is functionally controlled by a different major noble house, who all wield significant power in their own lands, while owing fealty to the Iron Throne. Martin here drew inspiration from medieval European history, in particular the Hundred Years' War, the Crusades, the Albigensian Crusade, and the Wars of the Roses. The first inhabitants of the continent were the Children of the Forest, a nature-worshipping Stone Age anthropoid species who carved the faces of their gods in weirwood trees. Some time later, Bronze Age human settlers, known as the First Men, migrated from Essos via a land bridge at the southeastern end of the continent and gradually spread to the entire continent. The First Men's attempts to chop down forests and cultivate the land led to a millennia-long war with the Children of the Forest, that eventually was settled by an agreement known as "The Pact". This was the beginning of the Age of Heroes, during which the First Men adopted the religion of the Children of the Forest. Those gods later became known in Westeros as the Old Gods. Eight thousand years before the events of the novels, an enigmatic arctic humanoid species called the Others emerged from the Land of Always Winter, the northernmost part of Westeros, during the decades-long winter known as "The Long Night". The Children of the Forest and the First Men allied to repel the Others, and then built the Wall barring passage from the far north. The region north of the Wall was since collectively known as the land "Beyond the Wall", and settled by tribal descendants of the First Men known as the Wildlings or Free Folk. Sometime later, the Iron Age humans from Essos called the Andals invaded Westeros, bringing along the Faith of the Seven. One by one, kingdoms of the First Men south of the Neck fell to the Andals, and only the North remained unconquered. The Children of the Forest were slaughtered and disappeared from Andal lands. Over time, seven relatively stable feudal kingdoms were forged across Westeros, although their territories fluctuated over the next few thousand years through constant warfare, and no kingdom remained dominant for long: The Kingdom of the North, ruled by House Stark of Winterfell The Kingdom of the Isles and the Rivers, ruled by House Hoare of Harrenhal The Kingdom of Mountain and Vale, ruled by House Arryn of the Eyrie The Kingdom of the Rock, ruled by House Lannister of Casterly Rock The Storm Kingdom, ruled by House Durrandon of Storm's End The Kingdom of the Reach, ruled by House Gardener of Highgarden The Principality of Dorne, ruled by House Martell of Sunspear. Three hundred years before the novels begin, the Targaryen dragonlord Aegon the Conqueror and his two sister-wives Visenya and Rhaenys, whose ancestors migrated from Valyria to Dragonstone a century prior, invaded the Westerosi mainland and landed his army at the mouth of the Blackwater Rush. The three assembled a temporary bastion called "Aegonfort", which later grew into the massive capital city known as King's Landing. Aided by their three formidable fire-breathing dragons, the Targaryen armies subdued six of the Seven Kingdoms through conquest or treaty, wiping out three of the seven ruling houses that refused to bend their knees, replacing house Durrandon with house Baratheon, house Gardener with house Tyrell, and house Hoare with houses Tully (in the Riverlands) and Greyjoy (on the Iron Islands). Only the defiant Dorne remained independent for almost another two hundred years through asymmetric guerrilla resistance, until it was finally absorbed under the Iron Throne through a marriage-alliance by King Daeron II in 187 AC. The Targaryens built the Iron Throne, forged from the swords of their defeated enemies by dragonfire. They also annexed the land regions of the riverlands and stormlands around the Blackwater Bay as the Crownlands. House Targaryen remained the ruling house of the Seven Kingdoms for almost three centuries until they were overthrown by a rebellion led by Robert Baratheon in 283 AC, who then became the first king of the Seven Kingdoms not of House Targaryen. Martin took the name Westeros from the Scottish region Wester Ross. The southern half of Westeros is based on an inverted map of Ireland.
World of A Song of Ice and Fire : Part of the narrative in A Song of Ice and Fire lies across the Narrow Sea from Westeros, an area comprising the large eastern continent named Essos. Being roughly the size of Eurasia, Essos has geography and climate that vary greatly. The western coastline is characterized by green rolling hills, the massive Forest of Qohor, and extensive island chains such as Braavos and Lys. The middle of the continent is covered by the flat grasslands of the Dothraki Sea and the arid lands known as the Red Waste to the east. Beyond the Red Waste lies the city of Qarth. The south is dominated by dry rolling hills and has a Mediterranean climate, with a coastline along the Summer Sea and Slaver's Bay. The north coast of the mainland is separated from the polar cap by the Shivering Sea. To the south, across the Summer Sea, lies the uncharted jungle continent of Sothoryos. Much of the fictional history of Essos relates to Valyria, a city located on a peninsula in southern Essos and the origin of House Targaryen before the destruction of the Valyrian Empire in an unspecified cataclysm. After the destruction of Valyria, the cities of Astapor, Yunkai, and Meereen regained independence and ruled their respective areas as city-states. The area is known in the books as Slaver's Bay.
World of A Song of Ice and Fire : To the south of Essos is the continent of Sothoryos (mistakenly spelled Sothoros in early novels). Sothoryos is the third continent of the known world, and is vast, plague-ridden, covered in jungles, and largely unexplored. It is reported to be as large as Essos and described as a "land without end" by Jaenara Belaerys, a Valyrian dragonlord from before the Doom of Valyria. The continent is first named on a map in A Storm of Swords (2000), showing the cities of Yeen and Zamettar on it. The narrative itself first refers to the continent in A Feast for Crows (2005). Martin had described Sothoryos in 2002 as "the southern continent, roughly equivalent to Africa, jungly, plague-ridden, and largely unexplored." The novels provide little other information. The swampy nature of Sothoryos is briefly referenced by Victarion in A Dance with Dragons, and teak from Sothoryos is said to be used to build ships. A corsair's road runs along the continent's northern coast. A Dance with Dragons refers to the diseases on Sothoryos in regards to the wealthy but sick Yunkai slave trader Yezzan zo Qaggaz. Victarion describes some people as "squat and hairy as the apes of Sothoros", and some people fighting in Daznak's Pit for Daenerys's entertainment in A Dance with Dragons are described as "brindle-skinned half-men from the jungles of Sothoros". Martin said that, unlike other peoples in the novels, the brindled men of Sothoryos were pure fantasy constructs.
World of A Song of Ice and Fire : The map collection The Lands of Ice and Fire also shows the north tip of a landmass named "Ulthos" to the south of Essos and east of Sothoryos. Asked whether this was another continent, Martin replied, "Well, it's a large landmass. I am a little unclear on the formal definition of 'continent' as opposed to 'big island.' Also on the size of Ulthos, which after all sits at the edge of the known world. Terra incognita and all that."
Lotan : Lotan (Ugaritic: 𐎍𐎚𐎐 LTN, meaning "coiled"), also transliterated Lôtān, Litan, or Litānu, is a servant of the sea god Yam defeated by the storm god Hadad-Baʿal in the Ugaritic Baal Cycle. Lotan seems to have been prefigured by the serpent Têmtum represented in Syrian seals of the 18th–16th century BC, and finds a later reflex in the sea monster Leviathan, whose defeat at the hands of Yahweh is alluded to in the biblical Book of Job and in Isaiah 27:1. Lambert (2003) went as far as the claim that Isaiah 27:1 is a direct quote lifted from the Ugaritic text, correctly rendering Ugaritic bṯn "snake" as Hebrew nḥš "snake". Lotan (ltn) is an adjectival formation meaning "coiled", here used as a proper name; the same creature has a number of possible epitheta, including "the fugitive serpent" (bṯn brḥ) and maybe (with some uncertainty deriving from manuscript lacunae) "the wriggling serpent" (bṯn ʿqltn) and "the mighty one with seven heads" (šlyṭ d.šbʿt rašm). The myth of Hadad defeating Lotan, Yahweh defeating Leviathan, Marduk defeating Tiamat (etc.) in the mythologies of the Ancient Near East are classical examples of the Chaoskampf mytheme, also reflected in Zeus' slaying of Typhon in Greek mythology, Thor's struggle against Jörmungandr in the Gylfaginning portion of the Prose Edda, and the vedic battle between Indra and Vritra (from Sanskrit वृत्र, vṛtrá, meaning enveloper, cover and therefore obstacle) who is accused as a dragon of hoarding the waters and the rains, as a dasa of stealing cows, and as an anti-god of hiding the Sun, concentrating on Vritra several demonization processes, the pattern of good versus evil, darkness versus light (hiding the Sun), and comparisons to forces of nature and monsters whose tentacles span the earth. The Litani River that winds through the Beqaa Valley in Lebanon is named after Lotan as the river was believed to be the personification of the god.
Lotan : List of dragons in mythology and folklore Tannin Rahab Apep
Lotan : Barker, William D. (2014), "Litan in Ugarit", Isaiah's Kingship Polemic: An Exegetical Study in Isaiah 24–27, Tübingen: Mohr Siebeck, pp. 151–167, ISBN 978-3-16-153347-1. Baumgarten, Albert I. (1981), The Phoenician History of Philo of Byblos, Leiden: E.J. Brill, ISBN 90-04-06369-2. Herrmann, Wolfgang (1999), "Baal", Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible, 2nd ed., Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing, pp. 132–139. Ogden, Daniel (2013). Drakon: Dragon Myth and Serpent Cult in the Greek and Roman Worlds. Oxford University Press. p. 14. ISBN 978-0-19-955732-5. Uehlinger, C. (1999), "Leviathan", Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible, 2nd ed., Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing, pp. 511–515.
Dothraki language : The Dothraki language is a constructed fictional language in George R. R. Martin's fantasy novel series A Song of Ice and Fire and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. It is spoken by the Dothraki, a nomadic people in the series's fictional world. The language was developed for the TV series by the language creator David J. Peterson, working off the Dothraki words and phrases in Martin's novels. As of September 2011, the language comprised 3163 words, not all of which have been made public. In 2012, 146 newborn girls in the United States were named "Khaleesi", the Dothraki term for the wife of a khal or ruler, and the title adopted in the series by Daenerys Targaryen. Dothraki and Valyrian have been described by The Economist as "the most convincing fictional tongues since Elvish".
Dothraki language : The Dothraki vocabulary was created by David J. Peterson well in advance of the adaptation. HBO hired the Language Creation Society to create the language, and after an application process involving over 30 conlangers, Peterson was chosen to develop the Dothraki language. He delivered over 1700 words to HBO before the initial shooting. Peterson drew inspiration from George R. R. Martin's description of the language, as well as from such languages as Estonian, Inuktitut, Turkish, Russian, and Swahili. David J. Peterson and his development of the Dothraki language were featured on an April 8, 2012 episode of CNN's The Next List. He went on to create the Valyrian languages for season 3 of Game of Thrones. Peterson and his development of Dothraki were also featured on the January 8, 2017 episode of To Tell the Truth.
Dothraki language : David Peterson has said, "You know, most people probably don't really know what Arabic actually sounds like, so to an untrained ear, it might sound like Arabic. To someone who knows Arabic, it doesn't. I tend to think of the sound as a mix between Arabic (minus the distinctive pharyngeals) and Spanish, due to the dental consonants." Regarding the orthography, the Dothraki themselves do not have a writing system—nor do many of the surrounding peoples (e.g., the Lhazareen). If there were to be any written examples of Dothraki in the A Song of Ice and Fire universe, it would be in a writing system developed in the Free Cities and adapted to Dothraki, or in some place like Ghis or Qarth, which do have writing systems.
Dothraki language : [1] on Wiktionary == References ==
Rahab (term) : Rahab (Hebrew: רַהַב, Modern: Rahav, Tiberian: Rahaḇ, "blusterer") is used in the Hebrew Bible to indicate pride or arrogance, a mystical sea monster, as an emblematic or poetic name for Egypt, and for the sea. Rahab (Hebrew: רָחָב‎, Rachav, "spacious place") is also one of the Hebrew words for the Abyss.
Rahab (term) : In medieval Jewish folklore, Rahab is a mythical sea monster, a dragon of the waters, the "demonic angel of the sea". Rahab represents the primordial abyss, the water-dragon of darkness and chaos, comparable to Leviathan and Tiamat. Rahab later became a particular demon, inhabitant of the sea, especially associated with the Red Sea.
Rahab (term) : Rahab is the official Hebrew name for the planet Neptune in a vote organised by the Academy of the Hebrew Language in 2009. Several Israel Navy submarines also bear the name, including the fifth Dolphin class submarine, which officially entered service in January, 2016: The INS Rahav. In the video game Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver, the boss character Rahab is a vampire who has evolved into a marine fish-like creature, possibly a reference to the mythic sea monster.
Rahab (term) : Lotan Rahab (disambiguation) Tannin (monster) Yam (god)
Rahab (term) : Day, John (1985). God's Conflict with the Dragon and the Sea. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-25600-1. LCCN 83021045. OCLC 614077481.
Rahab (term) : Singer, Isidore; Adler, Cyrus; et al., eds. (2002) [1901–1906]. "Rahab". Jewish Encyclopedia. New York: Funk & Wagnalls. LCCN 16-014703. Retrieved 2012-02-17.
Mušḫuššu : The mušḫuššu (𒈲𒍽; formerly also read as sirrušu or sirrush) or mushkhushshu (pronounced [muʃxuʃʃu] or [musxussu]) is a creature from ancient Mesopotamian mythology. A mythological hybrid, it is a scaly animal with hind legs resembling the talons of an eagle, lion-like forelimbs, a long neck and tail, two horns on its head, a snake-like tongue, and a crest. The mušḫuššu most famously appears on the Ishtar Gate of the city of Babylon, dating to the sixth century BCE. The form mušḫuššu is the Akkadian nominative of Sumerian: 𒈲𒍽 MUŠ.ḪUŠ, 'reddish snake', sometimes also translated as 'fierce snake'. One author, possibly following others, translates it as 'splendour serpent' (𒈲 MUŠ is the Sumerian term for 'serpent'). The older reading sir-ruššu is due to a mistransliteration of the cuneiform in early Assyriology and was often used as a placeholder before the actual reading was discovered.
Mušḫuššu : Mušḫuššu already appears in Sumerian religion and art, as in the "Libation vase of Gudea", dedicated to Ningishzida by the Sumerian ruler Gudea (21st century BCE short chronology). The mušḫuššu was the sacred animal of Marduk and his son Nabu during the Neo-Babylonian Empire. The dragon Mušḫuššu, whom Marduk once vanquished, became his symbolic animal and servant. It was taken over by Marduk from Tishpak, the local god of Eshnunna. The constellation Hydra was known in Babylonian astronomical texts as Bašmu, 'the Serpent' (𒀯𒈲, MUL.dMUŠ). It was depicted as having the torso of a fish, the tail of a snake, the forepaws of a lion, the hind legs of an eagle, wings, and a head comparable to the mušḫuššu.
Mušḫuššu : Ningishzida Set animal
Mušḫuššu : 1.^ Similar to the Set animal in Egyptian mythology and the Qilin in Chinese mythology.
Mušḫuššu : The Excavations at Babylon
Draco (constellation) : Draco is a constellation in the far northern sky. Its name is Latin for dragon. It was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century Greek astronomer Ptolemy, and remains one of the 88 modern constellations today. The north pole of the ecliptic is in Draco. Draco is circumpolar from northern latitudes, meaning that it never sets and can be seen at any time of year.
Draco (constellation) : Draco was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the constellation. The main character in the 1996 film Dragonheart gets his name from this constellation. The film also reveals that Draco is actually a dragon heaven, where dragons go when their time in this world is complete, if they have upheld the oath of an ancient dragon to guard mankind, with dragons otherwise fading into nothing upon their deaths. At the conclusion of the film, Draco, the last dragon, ascends into the constellation after he sacrifices himself to destroy an evil king. The Dragon Variation of the Sicilian Defense chess opening was also named after the constellation by Russian chess master Fyodor Dus-Chotimirsky. Draco Malfoy, an antagonist in the Harry Potter series, is named after the constellation as well.
Draco (constellation) : 3C 319 Draco (Chinese astronomy) Draco Supercluster List of the star names in Draco
Draco (constellation) : Citations References Boutsikas, Efrosyni (2011). "Astronomical Evidence for the Timing of the Panathenaia". American Journal of Archaeology. 115 (2): 303–309. doi:10.3764/aja.115.2.303. Ridpath, Ian; Tirion, Wil (2001), Stars and Planets Guide, Princeton University Press, ISBN 0-691-08913-2 Ridpath, Ian; Tirion, Wil (2007). Stars and Planets Guide. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-13556-4. Staal, Julius D.W. (1988). The New Patterns in the Sky. McDonald and Woodward Publishing Company. ISBN 978-0-939923-04-5. Wilkins, Jamie; Dunn, Robert (2006). 300 Astronomical Objects: A Visual Reference to the Universe. Firefly Books. ISBN 978-1-55407-175-3.
Draco (constellation) : The Deep Photographic Guide to the Constellations: Draco The clickable Draco Star Tales – Draco Warburg Institute Iconographic Database (ca 160 medieval and early modern images of Draco)
Korean dragon : Korean dragons (Korean: 용/룡; RR: yong/ryong) are legendary creatures in Korean mythology and folklore. The appearance of the dragon reflects its relation to its East Asian counterparts, including the Chinese dragons.
Korean dragon : Whereas most dragons in European mythology are linked to the elements of fire and destruction, dragons in Korean mythology are primarily benevolent beings related to water and agriculture, often considered bringers of rain and clouds. Hence, many Korean dragons are said to have resided in rivers, lakes, oceans, or even deep mountain ponds. The symbol of the dragon has been used extensively in Korean culture, both in Korean mythology and ancient Korean art. Ancient texts sometimes mention sentient speaking dragons, capable of understanding complex emotions such as devotion, kindness, and gratitude. One particular Korean legend speaks of the great King Munmu, who on his deathbed wished to become a "Dragon of the East Sea in order to protect Korea". The Korean dragon is in many ways very similar in appearance to other East Asian dragons such as the Chinese and Japanese dragons. It differs from the Chinese dragon in that it developed a longer beard. As with China, the number nine is significant and auspicious in Korea, and dragons were said to have 81 (9×9) scales on their backs, representing yang essence. Very occasionally a dragon may be depicted as carrying a giant orb known as the yeouiju (여의주), the Korean name for the mythical Cintamani, in its claws or its mouth. It was said that whoever could wield the yeouiju was blessed with the abilities of omnipotence and creation at will and that only four-toed dragons (who had thumbs with which to hold the orbs) were both wise and powerful enough to wield these orbs, as opposed to the lesser, three-toed dragons.
Korean dragon : Korean folk mythology states that most dragons were originally imugis (이무기; Imugi), or lesser dragons, which were said to resemble gigantic serpents. There are a few different versions of Korean folklore that describe both what imugis are and how they aspire to become full-fledged dragons. Koreans thought that an imugi could become a true dragon, or yong or mireu, if it caught a Yeouiju which had fallen from heaven. Another explanation states they are hornless creatures resembling dragons who have been cursed and thus were unable to become dragons. By other accounts, an imugi is a proto-dragon that must survive one thousand years in order to become a fully-fledged dragon. In either case, they are said to be large, benevolent, python-like creatures that live in water or caves, and their sighting is associated with good luck. The imugi is also called ishimi (이시미), miri (미리), yeongno (영노), gangcheori', kkwangcheori (꽝철이), kkangcheori (깡철이), bari (바리), hweryong (훼룡; 虺龍), or iryong (이룡; 螭龍).
Korean dragon : Gangcheori are dragon-shaped monsters that popularly feature in Korean mythology that were introduced in the 17th century. One of the earliest records of Gangcheori being mentioned is the Jibong Yuseol (1614). In those days, there was an old saying, "Where Gangcheori goes is like spring even it is fall." When author Lee Soo-kwang asked an old man in the countryside about the origin of the word, the old man told him about a monster called Gangcheori that burns down everything in a few miles. According to the records in "Seongho saseol" (mid-18th century), Gangcheori is a venomous dragon that like to live in swamps or lakes, and emits a powerful heat that destroys moisture and causes drought. It also brings storms, lightning, and hail to ruin crops.
Korean dragon : The Korean cockatrice is known as a gyeryong (계룡; 鷄龍) "chicken-dragon"; they do not appear as often as dragons. They are sometimes seen as chariot-pulling beasts for important legendary figures or the parents of legendary heroes. One such legend involves the founding of the Kingdom of Silla, whose Lady Aryeong was said to have been born from a cockatrice egg. It is also the origin of the name for the city of Gyeryong in South Chungcheong Province.
Korean dragon : Chinese dragon Druk, the Thunder Dragon of Bhutanese mythology Japanese dragon Nāga, a Hindu and Buddhist creature in South Asian and Southeast Asian mythology. Bakunawa, a moon-eating sea dragon depicted in Philippine mythology Vietnamese dragon
Korean dragon : Bates, Roy, Chinese Dragons, Oxford University Press, 2002. Bates, Roy, All About Chinese Dragons, China History Press, 2007. 'Korean Water and Mountain Spirits', in: Ingersoll, Ernest, et al., (2013). The Illustrated Book of Dragons and Dragon Lore. Chiang Mai: Cognoscenti Books. ASIN B00D959PJ0
Korean dragon : Podcast: The Meaning of Dragons in Korean Folklore from The Korea Society
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : A Song of Ice and Fire is an ongoing series of epic fantasy novels by American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. The first installment of the series, A Game of Thrones, which was originally planned as a trilogy, was published in 1996. The series now consists of five published volumes, and two more volumes are planned. The series is told in the third-person through the eyes of a number of point of view characters. A television series adaptation, Game of Thrones, premiered on HBO in 2011. A Song of Ice and Fire takes place in a fictional world, primarily on a continent called Westeros, and additionally on a large landmass to the east, known as Essos. Three main story lines become increasingly interwoven: a dynastic civil war for control of Westeros among several competing families; the rising threat of the Others, who dwell beyond the immense wall of ice that forms Westeros's northern border; and the ambitions of Daenerys Targaryen, exiled daughter of the deposed king, to return to Westeros and claim her throne.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : Martin has said he believes in "judicious use of magic" in epic fantasy. "I wanted to keep the magic in my book subtle and keep our sense of it growing, and it stops being magical if you see too much of it." Effective magic in literature, Martin claims, needs to be "unknowable and strange and dangerous with forces that can't be predicted or controlled." Before A Song of Ice and Fire, Martin initially considered writing an alternate historical novel without any magic. He therefore avoided overtly magical elements in the series. While the amount of magic gradually increases, Martin claims the series will end with less magic than many other fantasies have. Since all fiction is essentially untrue, Martin believes it needs to reflect reality at least in its core. He agrees with William Faulkner's statement in his Nobel Prize speech that "the human heart in conflict with itself" is the only thing worth writing about, regardless of the genre. He thus tried to give the story a little more historical fiction feel than a fantastic feel like previous authors' books, with less emphasis on magic and sorcery and more emphasis on swordplay and battles and political intrigue. The Atlantic noted that the series attempts to mash together fantasy and realism as two seemingly contradictory genres of literature, and Martin's books are generally praised for their realism. The Atlantic saw the realist heart of the Ice and Fire books in that "magic lingers only on the periphery of the world in which the characters dwell, and is something more terrifying than wondrous. ... It's a fantasy story that defies expectations by ultimately being less about a world we'd like to escape, at times becoming uncomfortably familiar to the one we live in." The unresolved larger narrative arc of Ice and Fire encourages speculation about future story events. According to Martin, much of the key to Ice and Fire's story future lies sixteen years in the fictional past of which each volume reveals more. Events planned from the beginning are foreshadowed, although Martin heeds story developments to not be predictable. The viewpoint characters, who serve as unreliable narrators, may clarify or provide different perspectives on past events. What the readers believe to be true may therefore not necessarily be true.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : In the series, the threat of a global climate change is ever present. There are no regular seasons that occur at expected intervals. Winter and the accompanying cold temperatures it brings may last for a number of years or even a decade or longer. During this time, thousands if not millions may die from starvation or the ravages of war and violence that often coincide with mass starvation. The White Walkers or others represent the personification of this threat. Yet, despite the nature of the threat as an existential danger to the very survival of the human race, many of the powerful in Westeros choose to deny its existence or ignore it. This is most prominently seen in the conflict between the Starks and the Lannisters that forms the basis for the story in A Song of Ice and Fire. The Starks (along with their patronage of the Night's Watch) defend all of Westeros against the threat of winter. They acknowledge its inevitability and do everything in their power to prepare for and prevent the disasters that may come from a prolonged winter and open warfare with the White Walkers. However, their attempts to warn others about the threat and rally the great houses to their cause are generally not successful.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : According to Ethan Sacks New York's Daily News found the story focus "more on Machiavellian political intrigue than Tolkien-esque sword and sorcery". Since Martin drew on historical sources to build the Ice and Fire world, Damien G. Walter of London's The Guardian saw a startling resemblance between Westeros and England in the period of the Wars of the Roses, where "One throne unifies the land but great houses fight over who will sit upon it. With no true king the land is beset with corrupt, money-grubbing lords whose only interest is their own prestige. Two loose alliances of power pit a poor but honorable North against a rich and cunning South. And the small folk must suffer through it all, regardless of which side wins." As in the Middle Ages, the characters define their alliances by their home towns or kinship, not by modern-day concepts like countries or nationalism. The king was seen as an avatar of God so that the legitimacy of kingship was very important. Martin wanted to show the possible consequences of the leaders' decisions, as general goodness does not automatically make competent leaders and vice versa. Adam Serwer of The Atlantic regarded A Song of Ice and Fire as "more a story of politics than one of heroism, a story about humanity wrestling with its baser obsessions than fulfilling its glorious potential" where the emergent power struggle stems from the feudal system's repression and not from the fight between good and evil (see section § Moral ambiguity). Damien G. Walter saw Martin's strength in "his compendious understanding of the human stories driving the grand political narrative. There does not seem to be a single living soul in the land of Westeros that Martin does not have insight into, from the highest king to the lowest petty thief. ... It is a world of high stakes, where the winners prosper and the losers are mercilessly ground under heel. Against this tapestry every one of Martin's characters is forced to choose between their love for those close to them and the greater interests of honor, duty and the realm. More often than not, those who make the noble choice pay with their lives." Writing in Foreign Affairs, Charli Carpenter noted that "leaders disregard ethical norms, the needs of their small-folk, and the natural world at their own peril. Jockeying for power by self-interested actors produces not a stable balance but sub-optimal chaos; gamesmanship and the pursuit of short-term objectives distracts players from the truly pressing issues of human survival and stability." The novels are to reflect the frictions of the medieval class structures, where people were brought up to know the duties and privileges of their class. Si Sheppard of Salon found this problematic, as it conformed to the prevailing trope in fantasy fiction whereby political agency is the exclusive right of a hierarchical elite. Martin also explores how far birth and social class, or values and memories determines people's identity. Among the characters losing their names and very identities are Arya Stark and Theon Greyjoy; Arya goes through several different identities before joining the Faceless Men with the ultimate goal to become no-one so as to be able to freely assume other identities. On the other hand, Quentyn Martell and his companions deliberately mask their identity by assuming false names, although it never really affects who they are in private.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : A common theme in the fantasy genre is the battle between good and evil, although Martin deliberately defied the conventions and assumptions of neo-Tolkienian fantasy. Whereas The Lord of the Rings had succeeded with externalizing villainy through ugliness, Martin felt that Tolkien's imitators oversimplified the struggle between good and evil into stereotypical clichés. William Faulkner's 1950 Nobel Prize speech rather serves as a paradigm for Martin's writing; Faulkner said that only the human heart in conflict with itself was worth writing about. Just like people's capacity for good and for evil in real life, Martin explores the questions of redemption and character change in the Ice and Fire series. Laura Miller of The New Yorker summarized that "Characters who initially seem likable commit reprehensible acts, and apparent villains become sympathetic over time", and The Atlantic said that even the TV adaptation "does not present the viewer with an easily identifiable hero, but with an ensemble of characters with sometimes sympathetic, often imperfect motives". Attracted to gray characters instead of orcs and angels, Martin regards the hero as the villain on the other side. The Wall's Night's Watch, whom Martin described as "criminal scum [who] are also heroes and they wear black", was a deliberate twist on fantasy stereotypes. Furthermore, the use of black as the identifying color for the essentially good Night's Watch and the use of white for the much corrupted Kingsguard is another example of Martin subverting traditional fantasy which tends to link light colors with good and darker ones with evil. Considering universally adored or hated characters as too one-dimensional, Martin writes his characters with well-mixed natures so that readers will invest in and identify with them. The actions and politics in the novels leave it to the reader to decide about who is good and evil. Characters are explored from many sides through the multiple viewpoint structure so that, unlike in a lot of other fantasy, the supposed villains can provide their viewpoint. This is necessary since in the real world throughout history, most human beings have justified their deeds as the right thing and the opponent's as villainous. It may not always be easy to determine who represents the good and evil side in real life, as some of the darkest villains in history had some good things about them, the greatest heroes had weaknesses and flaws. However, according to Martin, Tyrion Lannister is the most morally neutral main character in the book, which, along with his cynicism, is what makes him his favorite character.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : David Orr of The New York Times praised Martin as "unapologetically coldblooded", saying the book series was no children's literature with "a boy being thrown off a balcony, a woman having her face bitten off, a man having his nose cut off, a girl having her ear sliced off, multiple rapes, multiple massacres, multiple snarfings (devouring) of people by animals [and] multiple beheadings". James Hibberd of Entertainment Weekly saw Martin's ruthlessness about killing beloved characters as a hallmark of the series, leading "fans to throw their books across the room—only to go pick them up again". Bill Sheehan of The Washington Post noted that the characters' vulnerability and possibly impending death "lends a welcome sense of uncertainty to the proceedings and helps keep the level of suspense consistently high throughout". Although fantasy comes from an imaginative realm, Martin sees an honest necessity to reflect the real world where people die sometimes ugly deaths, even beloved people. The deaths of supernumerary extras or orcs have no major effect on readers, whereas a friend's death has much more emotional impact. Martin kills off main characters because he finds it very irritating to know early in the story who as the hero will come through unscathed. Martin dislikes this lack of realism, comparing the situation to a soldier scared the night before a battle. Martin wants his readers to feel that no one is safe as they turn the page. Martin prefers a hero's sacrifice to say something profound about human nature, and points readers not wanting to get upset or disturbed to the plenty of books for comfort reading. When picking characters to die in battle scenes, Martin chooses secondary or tertiary characters from the character lists without giving much thought, as he sees these characters as hardly developed and in some cases just as names. However, the death and time of death of many major characters have been planned from the beginning, although these scenes may not always be easy to write. A scene called the "Red Wedding", which occurs about two thirds through A Storm of Swords and leaves several major characters dead, was the hardest scene Martin had ever written. He repeatedly skipped writing the chapter and eventually wrote it last for A Storm of Swords. Readership response ranged from praise to condemnation, but Martin said the chapter "was painful to write, it should be painful to read, it should be a scene that rips your heart out, and fills you with terror and grief." The wars in the novels are much more morally complex than a fight between good and evil. The novels are to reflect that wars have substantial death rates. The novels' attitude toward war is shaped by Martin's experiences with the controversies of the Vietnam War. As Martin was against the Vietnam War, the books reflect some of his views on war and violence and their costs, though he endeavors to avoid using his characters as mouthpieces for his own personal diatribes. Among the plot twists are the death of apparently crucial characters and the reappearances of believed-to-be dead characters. However, Rachael Brown of The Atlantic said that Martin's penchant for unpredictability may make the reader grow increasingly skeptical of apparent deaths, alluding to Jon Snow's fate in A Dance with Dragons. Martin believes that bringing back a dead character necessitates a transformative experience of the character. The body may be moving, but some aspect of the spirit is changed or lost. One of the characters who has come back repeatedly from death is Beric Dondarrion, The Lightning Lord, and what has happened with him echoes with some of the other revived characters; bits of his humanity and his past lives are lost every time he comes back from death, his flesh is falling away from him, but he remembers the mission he was sent to do before death.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : Considering sexuality an important driving force in human life that should not be excluded from the narrative, Martin equipped many of the Ice and Fire characters with a sex drive. Martin was also fascinated by medieval contrasts where knights venerated their ladies with poems and wore their favors in tournaments while their armies raped women in wartime. The nonexistence of adolescence in the Middle Ages served as a model for Daenerys's sexual activity at the age of 13 in the books. Many high-born women were married at or below that age because the onset of sexual maturity supposedly turned children into adults. With the Targaryens, the novels also allude to the incestuous practices in the Ptolemaic dynasty of ancient Egypt to keep its bloodlines pure; but Martin also portrayed a sociopathic element in the incestuous relationship of the twins Cersei and Jaime Lannister, whose strong bonding inhibits their pairing with others whom they regard as inferior. Martin wrote the novels' sex scenes in detail, "whether it's a great transcendent, exciting, mind blowing sex, or whether it's disturbing, twisted, dark sex, or disappointing perfunctory sex". Martin blamed the American attitudes towards sex for some readers' offense with the novels' sex scenes, on grounds that only a strong double standard explains the aversion to coitus in people undisturbed by descriptions of war. He also argued that the purpose of his narrative was rather to immerse the reader in the characters' experience, than to advance the plot. Because of child pornography laws, the television adaptation was forced to either extenuate the sex scenes for the younger characters or age all characters up. HBO preferred the latter, adding some sex scenes to the TV series while leaving out others. The premiere of Game of Thrones was followed by many debates about the depiction of sex, rape, and female agency in the franchise. USA Today's assessment that HBO added "so many buxom, naked prostitutes that TV's Westeros makes Vegas look like a convent" earned Martin's reply that there were many brothels in the Middle Ages. Amber Taylor of The Atlantic saw the depiction of sex as one of the show's most distinctive aspects, "cheesy only insofar as sex is fundamentally absurd". Despite HBO's freedom to titillate viewers with sex and nudity, none of the show's sex scenes felt superfluous for her; some of Daenerys's TV scenes "make her vulnerability more real than any political exposition". Taylor also lauded HBO's "admirable choice ... that its nonconsensual sex scenes are deeply unarousing, in marked contrast with shows on other networks that use a historical setting as window dressing for prurient depictions of rape".
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : The idea of who people are and what makes them who they are is a prominent theme throughout the series, becoming more prominent as the series goes on. Point of view characters change their names, even to a point where they lose their identity in the chapter title. This is best exemplified in the character of Arya, who goes through a number of identity changes as she makes her way from King's Landing to Braavos: Arry, Nymeria, Nan, Salty and Cat of the Canals, among others. (Her chapters in A Dance with Dragons see her called 'The Blind Girl' and 'The Ugly Little Girl'.) Martin says "Arya has gone through a dozen different identities, even getting to Braavos—where the ultimate goal of the Faceless Men is to become no-one, and to be able to assume identities as one assumes a suit of clothes." Arya is not the only character to change her name or have her name changed for her. Her sister Sansa Stark assumes the identity of Alayne Stone. Tyrion Lannister travels under the names Yollo and Hugor Hill. Catelyn Stark becomes Lady Stoneheart. And Theon Greyjoy's chapters in A Dance with Dragons are titled: Reek, The Prince of Winterfell, The Turncloak, A Ghost in Winterfell, and finally, Theon again. Martin says: "Identity is one of the things that I'm playing with in this series as a whole, and in this particular book—what is it that makes us who we are? Is it our birth, our blood, our position in the world? Or something more integral to us? Our values, our memories, et cetera."
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : Martin provides a variety of female characters to explore some of the ramifications of the novels being set in a patriarchal society. Martin says that he wrote all characters as human beings with the same basic needs, dreams and influences, and that his female characters are to cover the same wide spectrum of human traits like the males. Martin claims to identify with all point-of-view characters in the writing process despite significant differences to him, be it gender or age. He sees himself neither as misogynistic or a promoter of feminism, although he acknowledged that some values inoculated within childhood can never be fully abandoned, even those consciously rejected. He says that he appreciates the discussions whether the series is feminist or anti-feminist, and is very gratified of the many female readers and how much they like at least some of the female characters. He says that he does not presume to make feminist statements in either way. Martin's books frequently depict and refer to rape and humiliation, most cases of which are perpetrated upon women. The Atlantic noted that Daenerys and Queen Cersei share the parallels of being forced into marriage, having powerful strengths of will, and being utterly ruthless toward their enemies. As bloodline and succession are the quickest and surest way to assert strength in Westeros, Cersei takes advantage of motherhood by procreating with her brother Jaime and having children fathered by her hated husband Robert aborted, thereby leaving him without a true heir in revenge. Martin said that Cersei's walk of public penitence in A Dance with Dragons may be read as misogynistic or feminist. Jane Shore, mistress of Edward IV, was punished similarly after Edward's death. Cersei is defined by her pride, and this punishment was directed at women to break their pride, but was never inflicted on men. Critics addressed the series' portrayal of women after Game of Thrones began airing in 2011. Ginia Bellafante wrote in a piece from The New York Times that the series was "boy fiction patronizingly turned out to reach the population's other half" and considered it a "true perversion" that "all of this illicitness [in the TV series] has been tossed in as a little something for the ladies, out of a justifiable fear, perhaps, that no woman alive would watch otherwise". Although there may be women who read books like the Ice and Fire series, Bellafante said to never have "met a single woman who has stood up in indignation at her book club and refused to read the latest from Lorrie Moore unless everyone agreed to The Hobbit first". The article received so many responses that the New York Times had to close down the comments section. Ilana Teitelbaum of The Huffington Post responded in an article called "Dear New York Times: A Game of Thrones Is Not Just for Boys", claiming that Bellafante's piece was not only rife with inaccuracies, but also patronizing to female readers. Teitelbaum defended the many sex scenes in the TV series because the books as a source sprawl with them. She encouraged discussion of the Ice and Fire books and the fantasy genre from a feminist perspective, but rejected Bellafante's point that only men are interested in fantasy, considering Bellafante's characterization of fantasy as "boy fiction" as a promotion of gender stereotyping offensive to the genre as well as to women. Scott Meslow of The Atlantic noted the need to differentiate between depicting misogyny and endorsing misogyny, as the series is set in a world in which sex is the primary means by which women can assert their power. Meslow states that although the TV series may sometimes toe the line between Skinimax-style exploitation and genuine plot advancement, the sexual scenes also invite the viewers to sympathize with the series' women.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : The novels show several competing religions, in imitation of religion's centrality to the Middle Ages, and to suit the author's perception of himself as a lapsed Catholic with atheist or agnostic habits. To evade the difficulty of inventing religions, George R. R. Martin based the series' major religions on real religious systems. The fictional history of Westeros shows how each religion evolved. Each of the religions reflects its culture's temperament. According to James Poniewozik of Time magazine, no religion appears to be presented as the true faith, nor as the sole source of virtue. Implications stand that the different kinds of magic in the Ice and Fire world may be manifestations of the same forces, whereby readers can puzzle out the relation between the religions and the various magics; but the validity, teachings, and power of the competing religions in Ice and Fire, are left ambiguous, and Martin has said the series' gods are unlikely to appear as deus ex machina in Westeros.
Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire : Food is such a central element in the Ice and Fire series that some critics have accused Martin of "gratuitous feasting". By fans' count, the first four novels name more than 160 dishes, ranging from peasant meals to royal feasts featuring camel, crocodile, singing squid, seagulls, lacquered ducks and spiny grubs. Adam Bruski of The Huffington Post said the vivid descriptions of food do not just lend color and flavor to the fictional world but almost appear as a supporting character. Some dishes have a foreshadowing nature or are particularly appropriate to the mood and temperament of their diners. Much of the realism of Martin's cultures comes through their unique foods and tastes. The meals signal everything from a character's disposition to plot developments, but also forebode the last profitable harvest before the coming winter. Inedible-sounding food was eaten at the Red Wedding in A Storm of Swords, preparing readers for the nauseating circumstances to come. The books have inspired fans to create recipes based on the dishes mentioned in the books. Chelsea Monroe-Cassel and Sariann Lehrer's culinary fan blog "Inn at the Crossroads" received over a million hits. Martin, who is "very good at eating [but] not too much of a cook", declined repeated requests to write a cookbook, but arranged for Monroe-Cassel and Lehrer to speak to his editor at Bantam Books, who offered them a cookbook deal, resulting in A Feast of Ice and Fire: The Official Game of Thrones Companion Cookbook. == References ==
Ouroboros : The ouroboros or uroboros (; ) is an ancient symbol depicting a serpent or dragon eating its own tail. The ouroboros entered Western tradition via ancient Egyptian iconography and the Greek magical tradition. It was adopted as a symbol in Gnosticism and Hermeticism and most notably in alchemy. Some snakes, such as rat snakes, have been known to consume themselves.
Ouroboros : The term derives from Ancient Greek οὐροβόρος, from οὐρά oura 'tail' plus -βορός -boros '-eating'. The ouroboros is often interpreted as a symbol for eternal cyclic renewal or a cycle of life, death and rebirth; the snake's skin-sloughing symbolises the transmigration of souls. The snake biting its own tail is a fertility symbol in some religions: the tail is a phallic symbol and the mouth is a yonic or womb-like symbol.
Ouroboros : BBC Culture – The ancient symbol that spanned millennia
Ḫedammu : Ḫedammu, Hurrian Apše ("Snake"), is a sea-dragon from Hurrian-Hittite mythology, which caused trouble on the Syrian coast. His Hittite counterpart was Illuyanka. Ḫedammu is the son of the god Kumarbi and Šertapšuruḫi, the daughter of the personification of the sea, Kiaše. The sea-dragon possessed an enormous appetite and nearly consumed the goddess Šauška (dIŠTAR), but was eventually defeated by her charms and she gives birth to snakes from him.
Ḫedammu : Volkert Haas: Die hethitische Literatur. Texte, Stilistik, Motive. Walter de Gruyter GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin etc. 2006, ISBN 3-11-018877-5, pp. 153 ff.
Brosno dragon : The Brosno Dragon, also known as Brosnya (Russian: Бросня), is a lake monster which in Russian folklore is said to inhabit Lake Brosno near Andreapol in western Russia. It is described as resembling a dragon and is the subject of a number of regional legends, some which are said to date back to the 13th century.
Brosno dragon : Many people treat the existence of Brosnya skeptically and say that the creature may be a beaver or a giant pike.
Brosno dragon : It was rumored in the 18th and 19th centuries that the giant creature emerged on the lake surface in the evening, but immediately submerged when people approached. It is said that during World War II the beast swallowed up a German airplane.
Brosno dragon : Loch Ness Monster Monster of Lake Tota Limnic eruption == References ==
Four Ashes, Buckinghamshire : Four Ashes is a hamlet in the parish of Hughenden, in Buckinghamshire, England. It was the site of Rockhalls manor house - home to the medieval Wellesbourne family and later home to the Widmer family. A farm on the site still bears the Rockhalls name and parts of the old manorial moat are visible. Local legend tells of a dragon that lived at Four Ashes and whose image was painted onto the walls of the old manor house. Also, a dell known as "Hags Pit" on the edge of the hamlet is alleged to have been connected to witchcraft.
Four Ashes, Buckinghamshire : Four Ashes replanted (Bucks Free Press article)
Here be dragons : "Here be dragons" (Latin: hic sunt dracones) means dangerous or unexplored territories, in imitation of a medieval practice of putting illustrations of dragons, sea monsters and other mythological creatures on uncharted areas of maps where potential dangers were thought to exist.
Here be dragons : Although several early maps, such as the Theatrum Orbis Terrarum, have illustrations of mythological creatures for decoration, the phrase itself is an anachronism. Until the Ostrich Egg Globe was offered for sale in 2012 at the London Map Fair held at the Royal Geographical Society, the only known historical use of this phrase in the Latin form "HC SVNT DRACONES" (i.e., hic sunt dracones, 'here are dragons') was the Hunt-Lenox Globe dating from 1508. Earlier maps contain a variety of references to mythical and real creatures, but the Ostrich Egg Globe and its twin the Lenox Globe are the only known surviving globes to bear this phrase. The term appears on both globes at the peripheral, extreme end of the Asian continent. The classical phrase used by medieval cartographers was HIC SVNT LEONES (literally, "here are lions") when denoting unknown territories on maps.
Here be dragons : Dragons appear on a few other historical maps: The T-O Psalter world map (c. 1250 AD) has dragons, as symbols of sin, in a lower "frame" below the world, balancing Jesus and angels on the top, but the dragons do not appear on the map proper. The Borgia map (c. 1430), in the Vatican Library, states, over a dragon-like figure in Asia (in the upper left quadrant of the map), "Hic etiam homines magna cornua habentes longitudine quatuor pedum, et sunt etiam serpentes tante magnitudinis, ut unum bovem comedant integrum". ("Here there are even men who have large four-foot horns, and there are even serpents so large that they could eat an ox whole.") The Fra Mauro Map (c. 1450) shows the "Island of Dragons" (Italian: Isola de' dragoni), an imaginary island in the Atlantic Ocean. In an inscription near Herat in modern-day Afghanistan, Fra Mauro says that in the mountains nearby "there are a number of dragons, in whose forehead is a stone that cures many infirmities", and describes the locals' way of hunting those dragons to get the stones. This is thought to be based on Albertus Magnus's treatise De mineralibus. In an inscription elsewhere on the map, the cartographer expresses his scepticism regarding "serpents, dragons and basilisks" mentioned by "some historiographers". A 19th-century Japanese map, the Jishin-no-ben, in the shape of ouroboros, depicts a dragon associated with causing earthquakes.
Here be dragons : Ptolemy's atlas in Geographia (originally 2nd century, taken up again in the 15th century) warns of elephants, hippos and cannibals. The Tabula Peutingeriana (a medieval copy of Roman map) has "in his locis elephanti nascuntur", "in his locis scorpiones nascuntur" and "hic cenocephali nascuntur" ("in these places elephants are born, in these places scorpions are born, here Cynocephali are born"). Cotton MS. Tiberius B.V. fol. 56v (10th century), British Library Manuscript Collection, has "hic abundant leones" ("here lions abound"), along with a picture of a lion, near the east coast of Asia (at the top of the map towards the left); this map also has a text-only serpent reference in southernmost Africa (bottom left of the map): "Zugis regio ipsa est et Affrica. est enim fertilis. sed ulterior bestiis et serpentibus plena" ("This region of Zugis is in Africa; it is rather fertile, but on the other hand it is full of beasts and serpents.") The Ebstorf map (13th century) has a dragon in the extreme south-eastern part of Africa, together with an asp and a basilisk. Giovanni Leardo's map (1442) has, in southernmost Africa, "Dixerto dexabitado p. chaldo e p. serpent". Martin Waldseemüller's Carta marina navigatoria (1516) has "an elephant-like creature in northernmost Norway, accompanied by a legend explaining that this 'morsus' with two long and quadrangular teeth congregated there", i.e. a walrus, which would have seemed monstrous at the time. Waldseemüller's Carta marina navigatoria (1522), revised by Laurentius Fries, has the morsus moved to the Davis Strait. Bishop Olaus Magnus's Carta Marina map of Scandinavia (1539) has many monsters in the northern sea, as well as a winged, bipedal, predatory land animal resembling a dragon in northern Lapland. On European maps of Africa, up until the Berlin Conference and the subsequent Scramble for Africa produced accurate cartographic representations of Africa, elephants replaced dragons as placeholders for unknown regions. An excerpt from On Poetry: a Rhapsody by the Irish satirist Jonathan Swift states: "So geographers, in Afric maps, With savage pictures fill their gaps, And o'er uninhabitable downs, Place elephants for want of towns".
Here be dragons : Mappa mundi – Medieval European maps of the world Terra incognita – "Unknown land", area not mapped by cartographers
Here be dragons : Notes Bibliography Livingston, Michael (2002). "Modern Medieval Map Myths: The Flat World, Ancient Sea-Kings, and Dragons". Strange Horizons. Archived from the original on February 9, 2006. Retrieved February 10, 2006.
Here be dragons : Myths & Legends On Old Maps (Chapter 10) "Here be Dragons" by David Montgomery, Washington Post, 3/14/07 "Here Be Dragons: An Introduction to Critical Thinking" by Brian Dunning from Skeptoid "Here Be Dragons" by Brian Dunning – Spanish Subtitled Version (Versión Subtitulada al Español de "Aquí Hay Dragones" por Brian Dunning) "No Old Maps Actually Say 'Here Be Dragons' -but an ancient globe does"
Piuchén : The Piuchén (also known as Peuchen, Pihuchen, Pihuychen, Pihuichen, Piguchen, or Piwuchen) is a creature from the Mapuche mythology and Chilote mythology pertaining to southern Chile, a much feared shapeshifting creature that can instantly change into animal form. According to legend, the Piuchén takes the hearts of its victims without leaving a mark on the body. It has often been described as a gigantic flying snake which produced strange whistling sounds, while its gaze could paralyze an intended victim and permit it to suck its blood. It has often been reported as the cause of blood being sucked from one's sheep. The creature can be eliminated by a machi (Mapuche herbal healer). The name "Piuchén" is also used as the vernacular for the common vampire bat species Desmodus rotundus, which can be the origin of the legend.
Piuchén : Colo Colo Basilisco Chilote Chonchon Chupacabra == References ==
The dragon and daughter : The dragon and daughter (Danish: lindorm og jomfru) is a Danish folktale.
The dragon and daughter : Once upon a time, a father was gathering nuts in the forest for his daughter. One nut had a worm inside, which the daughter took care of. Over time, the worm grew into a dragon. The daughter was not able to send away the dragon. On the advice of the villager, the daughter left with the Lindworm for an island. However, the island did not have a hill, so the daughter and dragon moved to the north of the island. Daughter and dragon lived in Lundø island for several years. Dragon lived digging hole in Lundø island. There was the place with the hill called Hald. The dragon and daughter lived in Hald. It is said that the place was called Lindhöj.(mean "The hill of the dragon").
The dragon and daughter : 28. Der var en jomfru, hendes fader havde fundet en nød i en skov, og så tog han den med hjem og gav datteren den. Der var en orm i den, og den opelskede hun og havde i en æske så længe, til den blev til en lindorm. Hun kunde ikke siden blive den kvit; men så blev der rådet hende, at hun skulde rejse over til en ø med den, hvor der ingen höje var. Så søgte hun til Lundø, og der boede hun i nogle år ude nord på landet. Lindormen gravede sig allerførst et hul ned i jorden, men så var der en höj ovre i Hald, der rejste denover til og boede i, og siden kaldtes denne höj Lindhöj.
The dragon and daughter : Dragon of Mordiford Danish folklore
The dragon and daughter : Evald Tang Kristensen:"Danske Sagn: Ellefolk, Nisser og adskillige Uhyrer, samt religiøse Sagn, Lys og Varsler" Arhus,1893,Vol.2,E,No.28,p183.
Bune : Bune is a demon listed in demonological grimoires such the Lesser Key of Solomon (including Thomas Rudd's version, as Bime) Johann Weyer's Pseudomonarchia Daemonum, Jacques Collin de Plancy's Dictionnaire Infernal, and the Livre des Esperitz. All of these texts describe Bune as a duke who is able to move the dead, make one rich, and answer a variety of questions. The Livre des Esperitz claims that Bune rules 35 legions of spirits, while the other texts only give him 30 legions to command. The other texts further describe Bune's appearance as a three headed dragon (with one head being human) and give him the additional powers of making devils gather around graves and making one wise and charismatic. Practicing occultist Carroll "Poke" Runyon suggests that the name ultimately derives from Buto (a title for Isis), as part of an overall claim that the Lesser Key of Solomon was by Solomon and rooted in Mesopotamian mythology. According to Rudd, Bune is opposed by the Shemhamphorasch angel Haaiah.
Bune : == References ==
Bel and the Dragon : The narrative of Bel and the Dragon is incorporated as chapter 14 of the extended Book of Daniel. The original Septuagint text in Greek survives in a single manuscript, Codex Chisianus, while the standard text is due to Theodotion, the 2nd-century AD revisor. This chapter, along with chapter 13, is considered deuterocanonical: it was unknown to early Rabbinic Judaism, and while it is considered non-canonical by most Protestants, it is canonical to Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christians, and is found in the Apocrypha section of some Protestant Bibles.
Bel and the Dragon : The chapter contains a single story which may previously have represented three separate narratives, which place Daniel at the court of Cyrus, king of the Persians: "When King Astyages was laid to rest with his ancestors, Cyrus the Persian succeeded to his kingdom." There Daniel "was a companion of the king, and was the most honored of all his Friends". However, while Theodotion's Greek apparently dates the story to the time of Astyages, the Old Greek versions of the story do not specify this. As such, the real identity of the king is up for debate. Some Bibles, such as the Douay-Rheims, use the more traditional identification of this king as being Evil-Merodach, or Amel-Marduk. This identification is supported by the Scriptural Research Institute in their book Septuagint: Daniel, where they cited similarities between Amel-Marduk's reign and the account, namely that Amel-Marduk was the only king of Babylon to have seen religious riots during his reign.
Bel and the Dragon : Susanna (Book of Daniel)
Bel and the Dragon : Works related to Bible (King James)/Bel and the Dragon at Wikisource Media related to History of Bel and the Dragon at Wikimedia Commons
Theli (dragon) : Theli (Hebrew: תְּלִי‎, Təlī; also translated as Tali, Thele, T'li, etc.), according to the Sefer Yetzirah, the earliest extant work of Jewish mysticism, is a celestial being who surrounds the universe. Theli is briefly mentioned in two verses of the Sefer Yetzirah. He is described as "above the universe, as a king on his throne". However, his overall purpose is never elaborated upon, and the Sefer Yetzirah itself does not attribute a particular form to Theli. Despite this, in the few sources which mention him, Theli is generally envisioned as a dragon. Shabbethai Donnolo, in his commentary on the Sefer Yetzirah, the Hakhmoni, envisioned Theli as a "cosmic dragon" which possessed great power within the universe, and governed both planets and constellations. Saadia Gaon, in his own commentary on the Sefer Yetzirah, sought to explain Theli in purely astronomical terms, and recognized he was not merely a constellation resembling a dragon, although Isidor Kalisch identified Theli with Draco. Ibn Ezra remarked that he was uncertain of what Theli constituted, instead identifying him with Leviathan as a tannin, or sea monster. The Vilna Gaon shares this identification of Theli as a tannin, while still asserting its supremacy over the signs of the zodiac. The etymology of Theli is uncertain, and the term does not resemble tannin, nakhash (“serpent”), or any other Hebrew word which became associated with “dragon” in later Jewish thought. It could be that it comes from attalū, which is the Akkadian name of a serpent according to the ancients swallows up the sun and causes its eclipse. == References ==
Gochihr (Zoroastrianism) : Gochihr (Persian: گوچهر, also spelled Gozihr) is a dragon in Iranian mythology.
Gochihr (Zoroastrianism) : Gochihr is the Middle Persian development of old Iranian *gau-čiθra-, attested in the Younger Avesta in the form gaočiθra-, meaning “bearing the seed, having the origin of cattle”.
Gochihr (Zoroastrianism) : Gochihr (الجوزهر Jawzihr in Arabic) was later adopted by Muslim astronomers and astrologers where it came to signify the moon, but was also used for the nodes of any other named planets.
Gochihr (Zoroastrianism) : Jörmungandr Fall of man Star and crescent Rāhu Ketu == References ==
Yelbeghen : Yelbeghen (Latin: Yelbegän, Cyrillic script: Йилбегән) is a multi-headed man-eating monster in the mythology of Turkic peoples of Siberia.
Yelbeghen : In the original myths Yelbegen was a multi-headed dragon or serpent-like creature (the etymology of the name points to this--Yel = "wind, magic, demonic" and begen comes from böke - "giant serpent, dragon"), but over time it evolved into other forms such as a multi-headed ogre-like behemoth. Some epics feature multiple Yelbegen with different numbers of heads who are the offspring of Altan Sibaldai, "the golden witch", a cohort of the lord of the underworld. Some epics also mention a Yelbegen king named Yelmogus. Still other stories tell of multiple Yelbegens of various colors. In a legend of the Altai, there was a seven-headed ogre, Yelbeghen, taking revenge from the Sun and the Moon, and used to eat them. The Ülgen shot arrows to Yelbeghen. This ogre sometimes chewed the stars in his mouth and broke them into pieces and then spit them out. Therefore, stars used to run away from him into the sky... According to Altai people, eclipse of the Moon used to take place because of this ogre. For this reason, when there is an eclipse of the Moon they say: ‘’Again Yelbegen (seven-headed ogre) ate the Moon...’’ Yelbeghen, sometimes Yelmogus is generally considered to be a creature separate from dragons and a polar opposite to them in its nature. It is a being of pure evil, a dragon-like beast and dreadful monster with no reason, that usually lives in dark and hostile places, or guards unreachable locations in fairy-tales. It is often multi-headed (with 3, 7 or 9 heads) and breathes fire. It is considered as "extremely intelligent, wise and knowledgeable" creature of "superhuman / supernatural" strength and proficiency in magic, very rich (usually described as having castles of enormous riches hidden in distant lands) and often lustful for women, with whom it is capable of making offspring. It often breathes fire and is generally accepted as a highly respected being, and while not always being benevolent, never as an entirely evil creature. Legends were spread about many historical and mythical heroes that they were conceived by a dragon.
Yelbeghen : Hydra Zilant Yuxa Chuvash dragon Slavic dragon
Yelbeghen : "Cilbegän/Җилбегән". Tatar Encyclopaedia (in Tatar). Kazan: The Republic of Tatarstan Academy of Sciences. Institution of the Tatar Encyclopaedia. 2002. (in Turkish) Türk Mitolojisi Ansiklopedik Sözlük, Celal Beydili, Yurt Yayınevi
Scholomance : The Scholomance (Romanian: Șolomanță [ʃoloˈmantsə], Solomonărie [solomonəˈri.e]) was a fabled school of black magic in Romania, especially in the region of Transylvania. It was run by the Devil, according to folkloric accounts. The school enrolled about ten students to become the Solomonari. Courses taught included the speech of animals and magic spells. One of the graduates was chosen by the Devil to be the Weathermaker and tasked with riding a dragon to control the weather. The school lay underground, and the students remained unexposed to sunlight for the seven-year duration of their study. The dragon (zmeu or balaur) was kept submerged in a mountaintop lake, south of Sibiu, according to some accounts.
Scholomance : An early source on the Scholomance and Dracula folklore was the article "Transylvanian Superstitions" (1885), written by Scottish expatriate Emily Gerard. It has been established for certain this article was an important source that Bram Stoker consulted for his novel Dracula. Gerard also published similar material in Land Beyond the Forest (1888), which Stoker might have also read, and other commentators stated this was Stoker's direct source for Scholomance in his novel. Twenty years earlier, a description of the Scholomance and its pupils (the Scholomonariu) was given in an article written by Wilhelm Schmidt (1817–1901), a German schoolteacher at the Romanian town of Hermannstadt. Some modern commentators have referred to the school as "L'École du Dragon" or "The School of the Dragon".
Scholomance : Bram Stoker, who studied Gerard's work extensively, refers to it twice in Dracula, once in chapter 18: The Draculas were, says Arminius, a great and noble race, though now and again were scions who were held by their coevals to have had dealings with the Evil One. They learned his secrets in the Scholomance, amongst the mountains over Lake Hermanstadt, where the devil claims the tenth scholar as his due. And in chapter 23: He dared even to attend the Scholomance, and there was no branch of knowledge of his time that he did not essay. Stoker's reference to "Lake Hermanstadt" appears to be a misinterpretation of Gerard's passage, as there is no body of water by that name. The part of the Carpathians near Hermannstadt holds Păltiniş Lake and Bâlea Lake, which host popular resorts for people of the surrounding area. In the fantasy novel Lord of Middle Air by Michael Scott Rohan, the character of wizard Michael Scot reveals that he dared to train at the Scholomance on two occasions, as there was so much knowledge it could not all be learnt in one night. The novel Anno Dracula by Kim Newman cites the same quotation from Stoker's Dracula in chapter 23. The young adult fiction novel Lady Midnight by Cassandra Clare uses the Scholomance as a Shadowhunter training academy to train elite Shadowhunters in her spinoff to The Mortal Instruments, The Dark Artifices. The novel A Deadly Education by Naomi Novik is the first in a series primarily set in a boarding school for young wizards inspired by and named for the legendary Scholomance. The warlocks in Bungie's Myth II: Soulblighter are described as having been trained at a school of magic named the Scholomance. In Blizzard Entertainment's World of Warcraft, the Scholomance is a ruined castle held by undead forces whose cellars and crypts are now used to train necromancers and create undead monsters. Like its legendary namesake, the Scholomance in World of Warcraft is in the middle of a lake. The school is also featured in the Scholomance Academy expansion pack of 2020, for the related game Hearthstone that is also set in the Warcraft universe.
Scholomance : Domdaniel Sæmundr fróði attended the Black School according to Scandinavian folklore.
Seri Gumum Dragon : In Pahang Malay folklore, the Seri Gumum Dragon (in Jawi script ݢوموم) is a legendary giant serpent locally called Nāga and commonly described as taking the form of an Asian dragon, that inhabit the Chini Lake in Pahang, Malaysia. There have been a variety of legends associated with the creature in the oral literature. The notable one is related to the origin myth of the lake itself, while another legend narrates about a love story between female Seri Gumum and a male Nāga called Seri Kemboja that leads to the origin myth of Tioman and Lingga Islands.
Seri Gumum Dragon : The most famous legends of Seri Gumum tell of a Jakun tribe who came to occupy the area where the lake is now. They were clearing the forest and making holes in the ground to plant crops. Suddenly, out of the forest came an old lady leaning on a walking stick, admonishing them of the fact that they didn't seek the permission of the spirits. She finally relented after the people apologized and later she planted her walking stick in the middle of the field to mark her territory and warned the group not to remove the stick. Sometime later, a dog began to bark endlessly at a rotting log on the edge of the clearing. One of the men threw his dibble stick at the log. Blood spurted out. As other men also began throwing more dibble sticks at the log, blood was gushing out and flowing away across the ground. Suddenly, the sky was split with lightning, and thunder began to roll. The skies let loose a downpour of rain and everyone ran for cover. In the turmoil, the old woman's walking stick was knocked out of the ground. Immediately, a fountain of water poured from the hole made by the stick. The water flowed for many years, thereby creating the Chini Lake. The tribe realized then that the log was actually a Nāga called ‘Seri Gumum’.
Seri Gumum Dragon : In another version of the legend, it tells the origin of Seri Gumum who was a cursed princess that was sealed away in a Forbidden Garden built on the Lake. Many years later, a foreign prince called 'Putera Kemboja' arrived from afar and both fell in love. The princess eventually broke the seal containing her when she agreed to leave with the prince. As soon as they crossed the boundaries of the Forbidden Garden, Seri Gumum and Seri Kemboja immediately transformed into two Nāga. At the very moment, the Forbidden Garden was flooded, hidden forever at the bottom of Chini Lake. On dark nights, when the Pahang River was in flood, both Nāga would come out of the lake and go downstream. Villagers would hear thunder and lightning as they passed. One day, as the Nāga were swimming out into the South China Sea, Seri Gumum realized that she had forgotten her sash, so she swam back to the lake to get it. Seri Kemboja who was stronger and loved his new form, swam all the way to the open sea, thinking that Seri Gumum was trailing behind. Unfortunately, the lady Nāga swam too close to an island, Bukit Dato' and her sash got caught on a stone. While she was trying to get free, she heard the cock crow. She knew it was almost daylight and she could not go farther. She waited for a long time until her breath became so still that she slowly turned into an island. A little bird, the tiom, loved to rest on the island, and soon, the new island was called Tioman. Seri Kemboja who had swum on ahead also heard the cock crow. He immediately stopped too and he became the Lingga Island.
Seri Gumum Dragon : Over the decades, there have been occasional reports of sightings, but as in the case of the Loch Ness Monster, these have never been scientifically proven. It was related that the ruler of Pahang would dream of the Naga whenever there was going to be a big flood that particular year. The native Jakun tribes still held the belief that the lake is the dwelling of a Nāga. Explorer Stewart Wavell visited Chini Lake in the 1960s, and was told of the ancient practice of human sacrifice to the Nāga around a great pillar of rock that rose up out of the waters. These were believed to pacify the Nāga. One of his guides, Che Yang, told him of a great flood that had come to Pekan a couple of years before. Many people had wondered if the Nāga was demanding sacrifice, even though the practice had been stopped generations ago. One day a girl out washing her clothes fell from her raft and was drowned. It was noticed that the waters immediately receded. The townsfolk believed the Nāga was now satisfied, having taken its victim. In May 1959, a British Engineer Arthur Potter, his clerk Baharuddin and two labourers named Lajan and Malik, all claimed to have seen a dragon-like creature at the lake. The sighting earned Mr. Potter the nickname 'Dragonwick'.
Seri Gumum Dragon : Nāga Loch Ness Monster
Seri Gumum Dragon : Aripin Said (1985), Juara yang tewas, Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka, ISBN 978-9836201423 MacDonald, Margaret Read (2008), The Singing Top: Tales from Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei, Libraries Unlimited, ISBN 978-1591585053 Ninotaziz (2012), N A G a: A Legend of Tasik Chini, Xlibris, ISBN 978-1477129234 Ninotaziz (2015), Nik and the Secrets of the Sunset Ship, MPH Publishing, ISBN 978-9674153144 Freeman, Richard (2019), Adventures in Cryptozoology: Hunting for Yetis, Mongolian Deathworms and Other Not-So-Mythical Monsters, Mango, ISBN 978-1642500158
Piasa : The Piasa ( PY-ə-saw) or Piasa Bird is a creature from Native American mythology depicted in one of two murals painted by Native Americans on cliffsides above the Mississippi River. Its original location was at the end of a chain of limestone bluffs in Madison County, Illinois, at present-day Alton, Illinois. The original Piasa illustration no longer exists; a newer 20th-century version, based partly on 19th-century sketches and lithographs, has been placed on a bluff in Alton, Illinois, several hundred yards upstream from its origin. The limestone rock quality is unsuited for holding an image, and the painting must be regularly restored. The original site of the painting was on lithographic limestone, which was quarried away in the late 1870s by the Mississippi Lime Company.
Piasa : Underwater Panther Manticore Chimera Teratorn Thunderbird (mythology) Horned Serpent
Piasa : Armstrong, Perry A. (1887). The Piasa: or, The Devil among the Indians. Morris, Illinois: E. B. Fletcher, printer. p. 48. Costa, David J. "Culture-Hero and Trickster Stories", in: Brian Swann, ed., Algonquian Spirit. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press. 2005. Esarey, Duane; Vincas Steponaitis; Michael McCafferty; David Costa (15 January 2015). "Untangling the Piasa's Tale: A Revised Interpretation of Illinois' Most Famous Rock Art". Illinois State Archaeological Survey / East Central Illinois Archaeological Society (ECIAS). O'Conner, Mallory McCane. Lost Cities of the Ancient Southeast, Gainesville, Florida: The University Press of Florida, 1995. ISBN 0-8130-1350-X Russell, John (July 1848). "The Piasa: An Indian Tradition of Illinois". The Evangelical Magazine and Gospel Advocate. Utica, New York. p. 18. Sparks, Everett. In Search of the Piasa, Alton Museum of History and Art (1990)
Piasa : "Piasa Bird" and picture, Alton, Illinois History of Piasa Bird painting "History of the Piasa Bird", Prairie Ghosts "Piasa Legend" Archived 2007-01-08 at the Wayback Machine, Piasa Birds "Flight of the Piasa" by Dr. Raymond Scott Edge, 2007, ISBN 978-0-9794737-0-8
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : The A Song of Ice and Fire fandom is an international and informal community of people drawn together by George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire book series, the HBO television series Game of Thrones, and the related merchandise.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : During his years in television, Martin's novels slowly earned him a reputation in fiction circles, although he said to only receive a few fans letters a year in the pre-internet days. The publication of A Game of Thrones caused Martin's following to grow, with fan sites springing up and a Trekkie-like society of followers evolving that meet regularly. By 2005, Martin received tons of fan e-mails and was about 2000 letters behind that may go unanswered for years.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : Ice and Fire Con (also known as A Con of Ice and Fire and A Convention of Ice and Fire) is a North American convention held annually in Mount Sterling, Ohio that celebrates George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire fantasy book series, as well as HBO's Game of Thrones television adaptation.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : Sweden-based fans Elio M. García Jr. and Linda Antonsson run one of the main Ice and Fire fansites, Westeros.org, which they established in 1999. The site had about 17 thousand registered members in 2012. Martin himself has checked with García (whom The New Yorker dubbed a "superfan" with encyclopedic knowledge of Martin's works) to confirm details of his own series, and has referred HBO researchers to García as well. The very first fan website and messageboard (as recounted by García, Antonsson, and Martin) was a site called "Dragonstone", which only lasted for about one year between the release of the first novel in 1996, and the site crashed in 1997, never to be rebuilt. The creator of "Dragonstone" moved on; however, several of the earliest online fans who had met on the site (Elio García among them) coalesced again to create Westeros.org. Though his work at Westeros.org is voluntary, García has been a paid consultant for licensed tie-in merchandise. García and Antonsson are Martin's coauthors of a companion book to the series, The World of Ice & Fire (2014). Martin had approached the pair about the project in 2008.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : The Brotherhood Without Banners is an unofficial fan club operating globally. George R. R. Martin attends their gatherings on his travels and counts their founders and other longtime members among his good friends.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : Since the creation of the television series in 2011 there has been a proliferation in the number of fansites dedicated to the show and novel series. These include 'ToweroftheHand.com', which organizes communal readings of the novels, and 'Fleabottom.net', an online discussion forum. In addition to these there is further discussion on more general sites, such as Reddit, and tumblr, where there are many fan-created blogs. Moreover, there are also many podcasts covering the series. These podcasts, such as 'Game of Owns', and 'A Podcast of Ice and Fire' provide discussions of each book chapters, and each episode in the television series, as well as discussing the current theories in the fandom.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : While Martin calls the majority of his fans "great", and enjoys interacting with them, some of them turned against him due to the six years it took to release A Dance with Dragons. A movement of disaffected fans called GRRuMblers formed in 2009, creating sites such as Finish the Book, George and Is Winter Coming?. It is not uncommon for Martin to be mobbed at book signings either. The New Yorker called this "an astonishing amount of effort to devote to denouncing the author of books one professes to love. Few contemporary authors can claim to have inspired such passion." When fans' vocal impatience for A Dance with Dragons peaked in 2009, Martin issued an angry statement called "To My Detractors" on his blog to stem a rising tide of anger. Author Neil Gaiman backed Martin on his own blog, replying to a fan's inquiry about Martin's tardiness that "George R. R. Martin is not your bitch." Martin sees it a right to withdraw anytime and enjoy his leisure times as he chooses. Martin believes of himself as being bound by an informal contract with his readers; he feels that he owes them his best work. He does not, however, believe that this gives them the right to dictate the particulars of his creative process or to complain about how he manages his time. As far as the detractors are concerned, Martin's contract with them was for a story, their engagement with it offered on the understanding that he would provide them with a satisfying conclusion.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : Martin is committed to nurturing his audience, no matter how vast it gets. Starting out as a fan himself, he visited his first convention in 1971 after selling his first story. Since there are different types of conventions nowadays, Martin tends to go to three or four science-fiction conventions a year simply to go back to his roots and meet friends, such as the Brotherhood Without Banners. His fan mail occasionally includes photos of children and pets named after his characters, which Martin displays on his website. He also administers a lively blog with the assistance of Ty Franck. Martin does not read message boards anymore, so as not influence his writing by fans foreseeing twists and interpreting characters differently from how he intended.
A Song of Ice and Fire fandom : The series has a devoted global following of people from a range of backgrounds. Celebrity fans include former U.S. president Barack Obama, former UK prime minister David Cameron, former Australian prime minister Julia Gillard and Dutch foreign minister Frans Timmermans, who framed European politics in quotes from Martin's novels in a 2013 speech. Other fans includes singer Zara Larsson, Adam Lambert, and Scott Ian from the metal band Anthrax, with the later one having read books, stated that he likes the show better, saying that it's very rarely that a TV show or a movie is better than the source material. Other celebrity fans include actors Laurence Fishburne, Richard Dreyfuss, June Squibb, Amanda Peet, Zach Braff, Patton Oswalt, Elijah Wood, Mindy Kaling, Dax Shepard, Kristen Bell, Elizabeth Banks, Anna Kendrick, Kerry Washington, Dylan McDermott and Jennifer Lawrence. Singers T-Pain, Kelly Clarkson, Snoop Dogg, Ed Sheeran, Madonna and Joe Jonas (who was married to Sophie Turner, who played Sansa Stark on the show), and comedians Kevin Smith, Seth Rogen, Aziz Ansari. Ryan Reynolds and his wife Blake Lively are also both fans of the show. Author Stephen King is also a fan of the series. Jay-Z and Beyoncé are both fans of the show, while Jay-Z once bought dragon eggs for his wife Beyoncé. In 2017, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge also said that they watch the show.
Tugarin : Tugarin (Russian: Тугарин) is a mythical creature in Eastern European bylinas and fairy tales, which personifies evil and cruelty and appears in a dragon-like form.
Tugarin : Tugarin has many different names in East Slavic mythology, such as Zmey Tugarin, Zmey Tugaretin, Zmeishche Tugarishche and others. "Tugarin" as a corruption of "Tugar-Khan" (Tugor-Khan of the Turkic Polovets), has been contested by an etymology from the root tug "grief".
Tugarin : Tugarin, although spoken of as a dragon, largely retains an "anthropomorphic" form, and is seen riding a horse. It appears he has wings with which to fly, and he soars to the air during the duel with Alyosha. The flying wings are certainly a dragon-like trait, but some versions explain it away as a contraption made of paper, attached to his horse and not to himself. Tugarin was a great glutton, which is somewhat of a dragon-like trait. He could stuff a whole wheel of bread in each cheek, then deposit a whole swan on his tongue and swallow it. This is similarly but somewhat differently sung in some versions of bylinas. He had a huge head, and in some texts, his severed head rolled off like a beer cauldron, or it rolled off like an onion, later to be described as big enough to serve as a cauldron. The pagan Tugarin is also portrayed as Roman Catholic rival of Prince Vladimir.
Tugarin : Tugarin Zmeyevich is best known from the bylina about his duel with Alyosha Popovich, which comes in many different versions. The story is also found in the prose fairytale version. In some versions, they two meet for the duel at Safat River, where they pitch pavilions. Tugarin roars in a booming voice, or else hisses like a snake. He is flying in the sky flapping his paper-like wings, which fail him when it rains. Alyosha Popovich wins the duel, cuts Tugarin's body into pieces and scatters them across the field. Some bylinas mention Tugarin's intimate relations with the wife of knyaz Vladimir. When she finds out about his death, she turns sad and reproaches Alyosha Popovich for separating her from her "dear friend".
Tugarin : Tugarin Zmeyevich is a chtonical character of an ancient dragon-fighting myth, related to Zmey Gorynych (Russian: “Змей Горыныч”, Ukrainian: “Змій Горинич”), Fiery Dragon (Russian: “Огненный Змей”) etc.
Tugarin : The legend of Tugarin Zmeyevich is mentioned in the novel The City Beautiful by Aden Polydoros, with the character Yakov imagining the antisemitic murderer of his family as Tugarin. The dragon is portrayed as an amalgamation of burned corpses.
Tugarin : Citations Bibliography
Margaret the Virgin : Margaret, known as Margaret of Antioch in the West, and as Saint Marina the Great Martyr (Greek: Ἁγία Μαρίνα) in the East, is celebrated as a saint on 20 July in Western Christianity, on 30th of July (Julian calendar) by the Eastern Orthodox Church, and on Epip 23 and Hathor 23 in the Coptic Orthodox Church. She was reputed to have promised very powerful indulgences to those who wrote or read her life or invoked her intercessions; these no doubt helped the spread of her following. Margaret is one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers and is one of the saints with whom Joan of Arc claimed to have spoken.
Margaret the Virgin : According to a 9th-century martyrology of Rabanus Maurus, Margaret suffered at Antioch in Pisidia (in what is now Turkey) in c. 304, during the Diocletianic Persecution. She was the daughter of a pagan priest named Aedesius. Her mother having died soon after her birth, Margaret was nursed by a Christian woman five or six leagues (15 to 18 miles (24 to 29 km)) from Antioch. Having embraced Christianity and consecrated her virginity to God, Margaret was disowned by her father, adopted by her nurse, and lived in the country keeping sheep with her foster mother. Olybrius, Governor of the Roman Diocese of the East, asked to marry her, with the demand that she renounce Christianity. Upon her refusal she was cruelly tortured, during which various miraculous incidents are reported to have occurred. One of these involved being swallowed by Satan in the shape of a dragon, from which she escaped alive when the cross she carried irritated the dragon's innards. Eventually, she was decapitated.
Margaret the Virgin : According to the Encyclopædia Britannica, Margaret's story is "generally regarded to be fictitious". The Catholic Encyclopedia states "even the century to which she belonged is uncertain". Doubts about her story are not new: by the Middle Ages, hagiographer Jacobus de Voragine (author of the well-known Golden Legend) considered her martyrology to be too fantastic and remarked that the part where she is eaten by the dragon was to be considered a legend.
Margaret the Virgin : The Greek Marina came from Antioch in Pisidia (as opposed to Antioch of Syria), but this distinction was lost in the West. From the east her veneration spread towards England, France, and Germany, in the 11th century during the Crusades. In 1222, the Council of Oxford added her to the list of feast days, and so her cult acquired great popularity. Many versions of the story were told in 13th-century England, in Anglo-Norman (including one ascribed to Nicholas Bozon), English, and Latin, and more than 250 churches are dedicated to her in England, most famously, St. Margaret's, Westminster, the parish church of the British Houses of Parliament in London. There is also a Saint Margaret Shrine in Bridgeport, Connecticut.
Margaret the Virgin : In art, she is often represented as a shepherdess, or pictured escaping from, or standing above, a dragon. While Western iconography typically depicts St. Margaret emerging from the dragon, Eastern Byzantine iconography tends to focus on her battle with the demon in her cell and depicts her grabbing him by his hair and swinging a copper hammer at his face.
Margaret the Virgin : Saint Marina the Monk and Saint Pelagia, both of whom are sometimes conflated or confused with Margaret
Margaret the Virgin : Middle English life of St. Margaret of Antioch, edited with notes by Sherry L. Reames Book of the Passion of Saint Margaret the Virgin, with the Life of Saint Agnes, and Prayers to Jesus Christ and to the Virgin Mary (in English, Latin, and Italian) Catholic Online: Saint Margareth of Antioch The Life of St. Margaret of Antioch
Snallygaster : In American folklore, the snallygaster is a bird-reptile chimera originating in the superstitions of early German immigrants later combined with sensationalistic newspaper reports of the monster. Early sightings associate the snallygaster with Frederick County, Maryland, especially the areas of South Mountain, Braddock Heights and the Middletown Valley. Later reports would expand on sightings encompassing an area to include Central Maryland and the Washington, DC, metro area.
Snallygaster : Goatman (urban legend) Rukh == References ==
Gangcheori : Gangcheori (강철이; 強鐵) is a dragon-shaped monster in Korean mythology that was introduced in the 17th century. It is a monster that has traditionally been popular throughout the country. It also has been called Gangcheol (강철), Kkangcheol (깡철), and Ggoangcheol (꽝철). One of the earliest records of Gangcheori being mentioned is the Jibong Yuseol (1614). In those days, there was an old saying, "Where Gangcheori goes it is like spring, even if it is fall." When author Lee Soo-kwang asked an old man in the countryside about the origin of the word, the old man told him about a monster called Gangcheori that burns down everything in a few miles. == References ==
Chalkydri : Chalkydri (Ancient Greek: χαλκύδραι khalkýdrai, compound of χαλκός khalkós "brass, copper" + ὕδρα hýdra "hydra", "water-serpent" — lit. "brazen hydras", "copper serpents") are mythical creatures mentioned in the apocryphal Second Book of Enoch from the 1st century CE, often seen as an angelic species. In the narrative, chalkydri dwell near the Sun and ran its course around the Earth with it bringing heat and dew to the Earth. The chalkydri and phoenixes are described as creatures 900 measures in size with the head of a crocodile and the feet and tail like that of a lion, each having twelve wings, and are empurpled like the color of the rainbow. Both the chalkydri and phoenixes are referred to as "flying elements of the Sun" in the Second Book of Enoch. At sunrise, all the chalkydri break into song with their counterparts, alerting the birds of the world for a new day to rejoice. The name has been interpreted as a translation of Nehushtan, the bronze serpent constructed by Moses to protect the Israelites from attacks by fiery flying serpents, and destroyed by King Hezekiah as idolatrous, from Hebrew into Greek. Similarities to the story of the chalkydri and phoenixes mentioned in the Second Book of Enoch can be found in the Greek Apocalypse of Baruch, which mentions a story of Baruch seeing a large bird flying around the Sun said to guard the Earth who an angel identifies as a phoenix.
Chalkydri : List of angels in theology == References ==
Moñái : Moñái is the third son of Tau and Kerana and one of the seven legendary monsters of Guaraní mythology. This creature has an enormous serpent-like body with two straight, colorful horns over his head, which serve as antennae.
Moñái : His dominions are the open fields. He can climb trees with ease and slide down to hunt the birds on whom he feeds and dominates with the hypnotic power of his antennas. Because of this he is called "the lord of the air". Moñái is fond of stealing and hiding the products of his misdeeds in a cave. His continuous robbing and raiding in the villages provoked great discord among the people as they all accuse each other for the robberies and mysterious "disappearances" of their belongings. The townspeople joined to put an end to Moñái's misdeeds and those of his brothers. The beautiful Porâsý offered herself to carry out this mission. She convinced Moñái that she had fallen in love with him and that before they celebrated their wedding she wanted to meet his brothers. Moñái left her in the care of Teju Jagua and left to search for the rest of his brothers: Mbói Tu'i, Yasy Yateré, Kurupí, Luisón, and Ao Ao. When he finally brought them all they began the wedding rituals. The brothers exchanged the drinks freely and quickly became completely drunk. It was in this moment that Porâsý attempted to escape from the cave which was closed off by a huge stone. Moñái prevented her from leaving and threw her back into the cave. Porâsý screamed to alarm the people who were waiting outside. Knowing that she was lost she ordered the people to burn the cave, even with her inside. While this killed Porasy herself, it also successfully destroyed Tau and Kerana's cursed descendants, including Moñai himself. In return for the sacrifice of Porâsý, the gods lifted her soul and changed it into a small but intense point of light. Since then, the gods destined the spirit of Porasy to light up the aurora as the morning star.
Moñái : Narciso R. Coleman (Rosicrán): Ñande Ypy Kuéra (Nuestros antepasados), 1929
Hydrus (legendary creature) : The Hydrus (also known as Enhydros, Enidros, Hildris, Hydra, Idra, Idres, Ydre, Ydris, and Ydrus) is a creature from Medieval bestiaries. They were said to be found in the Nile River. While in the Nile, a crocodile would roll the hydrus in the mud before eating the smaller creature. However, once inside the crocodile's stomach, the hydrus would burst free from the stomach lining. Another interpretation is that the hydrus would intentionally roll in the mud and seek out the crocodile while it slept with its mouth open. In medieval Christian tradition, this bursting free from the crocodile became an emblem of the resurrection of Christ bursting free from Hell.
Hydrus (legendary creature) : A hydrus has no set appearance. Normally it is considered to be a water snake, although Pliny the Elder believed that it was an otter. Other animals the hydrus has been thought of as include a bird, a dragon, and a mongoose. == References ==
Tanin'iver : Tanin'iver (compd. of Heb. תַנִין, "dragon" + עִוֵר, "sightless" — the "blind dragon") is an evil cosmic entity described in Kabbalistic writings, such as the Treatise on the Left Emanation and the Zohar. He is the steed of Lilith, so he is considered a mechanism by which evil is activated. Though Tanin'iver is castrated (echoing a fable about the Yetzer ha-Ra), he is still the catalyst for the coupling of Lilith with Samael, a union that brings pestilence into the world. == References ==
Draeck : Draeck may refer to:
Draeck : Vergulde Draeck
Draeck : Willem Draeck, Lord of Merksem (died 1525), Mayor of Antwerp
Draeck : De Groene Draeck Gulden Draak Hotel de Draak Joris en de Draak
Sea serpent : A sea serpent is a type of sea monster described in various mythologies, most notably in Mesopotamian cosmology (Tiamat), Ugaritic cosmology (Yam, Tannin) biblical cosmology (Leviathan, Rahab), Greek cosmology (Cetus, Echidna, Hydra, Scylla), and Norse cosmology (Jörmungandr).
Sea serpent : An apparent eye-witness account is given by Aristotle in his work Historia Animalium on natural history. Strabo makes reference to an eyewitness account of a dead sea creature sighted by Poseidonius on the coast of the northern Levant. He reports the following: "As for the plains, the first, beginning at the sea, is called Macras, or Macra-Plain. Here, as reported by Poseidonius, was seen the fallen dragon, the corpse of which was about a plethrum [30 m or 100 feet] in length, and so bulky that horsemen standing by it on either side could not see one another, and its jaws were large enough to admit a man on horseback, and each flake of its horny scales exceeded an oblong shield in length." The creature was seen sometime between 130 and 51 BC.
Sea serpent : C. S. Lewis's The Chronicles of Narnia features a sea serpent as one of many obstacles in The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, along with the 1989 TV serial and the 2010 film based on it. Beany and Cecil, featuring a sea sick sea serpent. Revived as The New Beany and Cecil Show by prouducer DIC Entertainment.
Sea serpent : Bakunawa Chinese dragon Giant oarfish Gyarados Kraken Lindworm Nāga Pyrosome Selma Stronsay Beast Ogopogo Jörmungandr Imugi (Korea) Mizuchi (Japan)
Sea serpent : Bibliography (Further reading)
Sea serpent : Video of the oarfish, a creature that possibly inspired the sea serpent mythology. https://emergencemagazine.org/essay/great-sea-serpent/ https://www.gutenberg.org/files/36677/36677-h/36677-h.htm
West Clandon : West Clandon is a village in Surrey, England within 1 mile of the A3. It is situated one mile north west of the much smaller separate village of East Clandon. West Clandon is served by Clandon railway station which runs stopping services via Cobham and Stoke D'Abernon as well as via Epsom to London Waterloo in one direction, and to Guildford in the other. Woking station is about 5 miles away (although there is no direct rail link) and offers many more destinations and a fast service to London.
West Clandon : West Clandon appears in Domesday Book undivided as Clanedun held by Hugo (Hugh) from Edward de Salisbury. Its domesday assets were: 2½ hides; 1 church (replaced approximately one century later), 1 mill worth 3s, 2½ ploughs, woodland worth 5 hogs. It rendered £3 per year to its overlords. Clandon House, a Palladian architecture mansion, is in the village, owned by The National Trust. It was largely destroyed by a fire in April 2015. Clandon Park is not part of the National Trust. The park is a 1,000 acres (400 ha) agricultural estate that is the seat of the Earls of Onslow and is currently owned and managed by Rupert Onslow, 8th Earl. George Duncumbe owned it from 1615 until 1642 on its gradual sale to Sir Richard Onslow starting with the large lodge in the park in 1642, and a series of transactions with the Onslow family, begun in 1650, was finally concluded in 1711 by the transference of the manor to Sir Richard Onslow, a mild Roundhead (Parliamentarian). Until the late 20th century the Earl was the largest private landowner in the county.
West Clandon : The only shops within the parish bounds are the Clandon Park gift shop and the Garden Centre. The village has two pubs: The Onslow Arms and The Bull's Head, as well as a British Legion.
West Clandon : Legend has it that a dragon once blocked the route to West Clandon. In commemoration there is a dragon cut into the chalk face of an old quarry. The legend was recorded in the Gentleman's Magazine in 1796, where it was recounted that the dragon infested one of the back lanes of the village. A soldier killed the dragon with the help of his dog, in return for being pardoned for desertion. The modern village sign depicts the battle between the dog and the dragon. Nearby villages include Ockham, East and West Horsley. Local towns are Woking and Guildford.
West Clandon : The average level of accommodation in the region composed of detached houses was 28%, the average that was apartments was 22.6%. The proportion of households in the civil parish who owned their home outright compares to the regional average of 35.1%. The proportion who owned their home with a loan compares to the regional average of 32.5%. The remaining % is made up of rented dwellings (plus a negligible % of households living rent-free).
West Clandon : Westwood, Jennifer; Jacqueline Simpson (2005). The Lore of the Land: A Guide to England's Legends, from Spring-heeled Jack to the Witches of Warboys. Penguin Books. ISBN 0-14-100711-7. OCLC 61302120.
West Clandon : West Clandon Website Clandon Park Website
Valyrian languages : The Valyrian languages are a fictional language family in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin, and in their television adaptation Game of Thrones and later House of the Dragon. In the novels, High Valyrian and its descendant languages are often mentioned but not developed beyond a few words. For the TV series, language creator David J. Peterson created the High Valyrian language, as well as the derivative languages Astapori and Meereenese Valyrian, based on fragments from the novels. Valyrian and Dothraki have been described as "the most convincing fictional tongues since Elvish".
Valyrian languages : To create the Dothraki and Valyrian languages to be spoken in Game of Thrones, HBO selected the language creator David J. Peterson through a competition among conlangers. The producers gave Peterson a largely free hand in developing the languages, as, according to Peterson, George R. R. Martin himself was not very interested in the linguistic aspect of his works. The already published novels include only a few words of High Valyrian, including valar morghulis ("all men must die"), valar dohaeris ("all men must serve") and dracarys ("dragonfire"). For the forthcoming novel The Winds of Winter, Peterson has supplied Martin with additional Valyrian translations. Peterson commented that he considered Martin's choice of dracarys unfortunate because of its (presumably intended) similarity to the Latin word for dragon, draco. Because the Latin language does not exist in the fictional world of A Song of Ice and Fire, Peterson chose to treat the similarity as coincidental and made dracarys an independent lexeme; his High Valyrian term for dragon is zaldrīzes. The phrases valar morghulis and valar dohaeris, on the other hand, became the foundation of the language's conjugation system. Another word, trēsy, meaning "son", was coined in honour of Peterson's 3000th Twitter follower. At the start of June 2013, there were 667 High Valyrian words. Peterson expanded the languages for the successor series House of the Dragon.
Valyrian languages : In the world of A Song of Ice and Fire, High Valyrian occupies a cultural niche similar to that of Classical Latin in medieval Europe. The novels describe it as no longer being used as a language of everyday communication, but rather as a language of learning and education among the nobility of Essos and Westeros, with much literature and song composed in Valyrian.
Valyrian languages : In the world of the novel and TV series, the Nine Free Cities of Essos speak locally evolved variants of Valyrian known as Bastard Valyrian, described by the character Tyrion in A Dance with Dragons as "not so much a dialect as nine dialects on the way to becoming separate tongues". Peterson described the relationship between High Valyrian and Bastard Valyrian as being similar to that between Classical Latin and the Romance languages evolved from Vulgar Latin, or more accurately between Classical Arabic and the modern varieties of Arabic, in that High Valyrian is intelligible, with some difficulty, to a speaker of a local Essosi language.
Valyrian languages : Peterson did not create a High Valyrian writing system for Game of Thrones, but he commented that he "was thinking something more like Egyptian's system of hieroglyphs—not in style, necessarily, but in their functionality. Egyptians had an alphabet, of sorts, a couple of phonetically based systems, and a logography all layered on top of one another." In the third season's episode "The Bear and the Maiden Fair", Talisa is seen writing a Valyrian letter in the Latin alphabet, because according to Peterson, "it didn't seem worthwhile to create an entire writing system for what ultimately is kind of a throwaway shot". A writing system was eventually created for House of the Dragon. It's a mixed script, consisting of 3 types of glyphs: Logographic glyphs (stand for whole words) Paradigmatic glyphs (used to show nominal paradigms and inflections) Alphabetic glyphs (used purely for their phonetic value)
Valyrian languages : High Valyrian was featured in detail in Game of Thrones only from season 3 onwards, spoken mostly by Daenerys Targaryen (played by Emilia Clarke) on occasions with her scribe Missandei (played by Nathalie Emmanuel) and lieutenant Grey Worm (played by Jacob Anderson). The language has more prominence in the prequel House of the Dragon, mainly between the lead character Rhaenyra Targaryen (played by Milly Alcock as teenager and Emma D'Arcy as adult) and her uncle Daemon Targaryen (played by Matt Smith). Emma D'Arcy, who played the adult Rhaenyra in House of the Dragon, reports enjoying learning it, saying, "I actually really enjoyed the process. It's like a fully functioning language — it's fully operational and so it's really gratifying to unpick." Their co-star Matt Smith, who played Daemon, initially found it daunting, saying, "I had pages of it. Reams. At first, I dreaded it. But when I got to it, I quite enjoyed learning it and quite enjoyed performing it."
Valyrian languages : Tongues of Ice and Fire forums, including Valyrian-specific discussion threads (for beginners Archived 2019-09-29 at the Wayback Machine and about language updates Archived 2019-09-29 at the Wayback Machine). A Wiki about High Valyrian linguistics High Valyrian has been available on Duolingo since 2019 and is one of two fictional languages, the other being Klingon from the TV series Star Trek
Drachenhöhle : Drachenhöhle or Drachenhöhle Mixnitz (literally Dragon's Cave of Mixnitz) is a 542 m (1,778 ft) long cave with a 20 m (66 ft) wide and 12 m (39 ft) high entrance near Mixnitz, Styria, Austria, south-east of Bruck an der Mur located at an elevation of 950 m (3,120 ft) above sea level. Cave bear of the species (Ursus ingressus) and other bone fossils that people found during the Middle Ages were deemed to be the bones of dragons, a belief that culminated in the saga of the "Dragon slayer of Mixnitz". The cave is one of the largest caves in the Alps where bears occupied an area that stretched over a length of way over 500 m (1,600 ft), by an average width of up to 40 m (130 ft) and a height of 10 to 15 m (33 to 49 ft). Due to a shortage of fertilizers during and after World War I the 8 to 10 m (26 to 33 ft) high sediments inside the cave were intensively mined between 1918 and 1923 of which around 2,500 tons of phosphoric acid were extracted. During the fertilizer mining, several geologists and paleontologists were present, who only documented the most valuable discoveries. Nonetheless, a rich cache of cave bear, Eurasian cave lion (Panthera leo spelaea), Gray wolf (Canis lupus), Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) and Alpine marmot (Marmota marmota) fossils, remains of open hearths and Paleolithic stone tools of the Aurignacian culture dated to 65,000 to 31,000 BCE were unearthed. Dated to between 65,000 and 31,000 BCE, these rank among the oldest traces of human presence in Austria.
Drachenhöhle : Records of archaeological work were published in a monograph in 1931, that was re-edited by Othenio Abel and G. Kyrie. Excavations took place at two locations inside the cave. The around 150,000 years old sediment's strata were divided into several layers, that among those named "Prehistoric layer" and "Paleolithic fireplace" also yielded a "Neanderthal layer". To this day the bones of more than 30,000 cave bear fossils were excavated. The site was protected in 1928 and declared a natural monument in 1949.
Drachenhöhle : Günter Auferbauer; Luise Auferbauer (2000). Grazer Hausberge: mit Mur- und Mürztal ; 52 ausgewählte Höhenwanderungen im Grazer Bergland, im West- und Oststeirischen Randgebirge, an der Rax, in den Mürzsteger und Fischbacher Alpen, in der Hochschwabgruppe, in den Eisenerzer Alpen, in den Rottenmanner, Triebener und Seckauer Tauern sowie in den Seetaler Alpen ; [die schönsten Tal- und Höhenwanderungen]. Bergverlag Rother GmbH. pp. 34–. ISBN 978-3-7633-4292-1. Othenio Abel (1931). Die Drachenhöhle bei Mixnitz: Tafelband. Verlag Österr. Staatsdr.
Draco (military standard) : The draco ("dragon" or "serpent", plural dracones) was a military standard of the Roman cavalry. Carried by the draconarius, the draco was the standard of the cohort, as the eagle (aquila) was that of the legion. The draco may have been introduced to the Roman army after the Dacian wars by Dacian, and Sarmatian units in the second century. According to Vegetius, in the fourth century a draco was carried by each legionary cohort.
Draco (military standard) : The Greek military writer Arrian describes the draco in his passage on cavalry training exercises, calling it "Scythian": The Scythian banners are dracontes held aloft on standard-length poles. They are made of colored cloths stitched together, and from the head along the entire body to the tail, they look like snakes. When the horses bearing these devices are not in motion, you see only variegated streamers hanging down. During the charge is when they most resemble creatures: they are inflated by the wind, and even make a sort of hissing sound as the air is forced through them. Arrian says the colorful banners offer visual pleasure and amazement, but also help the riders position themselves correctly in the complicated drills. The Gallo-Roman Latin poet Sidonius Apollinaris offers a similar, if more empurpled, description.
Draco (military standard) : The draco is depicted on the Ludovisi battle sarcophagus, above the horseman who is the central figure in the composition. It appears in several other reliefs, including the Arch of Galerius and the Arch of Constantine, both from the early fourth century. The only fully-preserved copper draco head has been found in Niederbieber.
Draco (military standard) : Dacian Draco Clan of Ostoja Koinobori
Draco (military standard) : Scott-Giles, Charles Wilfrid (1957). The romance of heraldry. Dutton. Yust, Walter (1953). Encyclopædia Britannica: a new survey of universal knowledge. Encyclopædia Britannica.
Draco (military standard) : The Draco, the Late Roman military standard
Dragon of Wantley : The Dragon of Wantley is a legend of a dragon-slaying by a knight on Wharncliffe Crags in South Yorkshire, recounted in a comic broadside ballad of 1685. It was later included in Thomas Percy's 1767 Reliques of Ancient English Poetry, enjoying widespread popularity in the 18th and 19th centuries, although less well-known today. In 1737, the ballad was adapted (in English) into one of the more successful operas to appear in London up to that point. The ballad tells of how a huge dragon - almost as big as the Trojan Horse - devours anything it wishes, even trees and buildings, until the Falstaffian knight Moore of Moore Hall obtains a bespoke suit of spiked Sheffield armour and delivers a fatal kick to the dragon's "arse-gut" - its only vulnerable spot, as the dragon explains with its dying breath. The topography of the ballad is accurate in its detail as regards Wharncliffe Crags and environs, but the story, and its burlesque humour, has been enjoyed in places far from the landscape from which it appears to derive and has been used to make a number of points unrelated to it.
Dragon of Wantley : More Hall is a 15th-century (or earlier) residence immediately below the gritstone edge of Wharncliffe Crags—Wharncliffe being formerly known in the local vernacular as Wantley—The dragon was reputed to reside in a den, and to fly across the valley to Allman (Dragon's) Well on the Waldershelf ridge above Deepcar. One member of the More family of More Hall, George More, was involved in the Throckmorton Plot against Elizabeth I in 1583.
Dragon of Wantley : Henry Carey wrote the libretto to a burlesque opera called The Dragon of Wantley in 1737. The opera, with music composed by John Frederick Lampe, punctured the vacuous operatic conventions and pointed a satirical barb at Robert Walpole and his taxation policies. This Augustan parody was a huge success and its initial run was 69 performances in the first season; a number which exceeded even The Beggar's Opera (1728). The opera debuted at the Haymarket Theatre, where its coded attack on Walpole would have been clear, but its long run occurred after it moved to Covent Garden, which had a much greater capacity for staging. Part of its satire of opera was that all the words were sung, including the recitatives and da capo arias. The play itself is very brief on the page, as it relied extensively on absurd theatrics, dances, and other non-textual entertainments. The Musical Entertainer from 1739 contains engravings showing how the work was performed. The piece is at once a satire of the ridiculousness of operatic staging and an indirect satire of the government's tax policy. In Carey's play, Moore of Moorehall, "a valiant knight, in love with Margery", is a drunk who pauses to deal with the dragon only between bouts of drinking and carousing with women. Margery offers herself as a human sacrifice to Moore to persuade him to take on the cause of battling the dragon, and she is opposed by Mauxalinda, Moore's "cast-off mistress", who has interest in him now that a rival has appeared. The battle with the dragon takes place entirely offstage, and Moore only wounds the dragon (who is more reasonable than Moore in his dialogue) in its anus. The main action concerns the lavish dances and songs by the two sopranos and Moore. The opera is now rarely performed. Isleworth Baroque (now Richmond Opera) have produced two fully-staged productions, in 2012 and 2021. The University of Birmingham also performed the opera as part of their Summer Festival in the Barber Institute of Fine Arts. It is being produced for two performances in Chicago's Haymarket Opera Company in October 2019 and the Boston Early Music Festival has announced performances in November 2023.
Dragon of Wantley : A novel, The Dragon of Wantley, was written by Owen Wister, best known as the author of The Virginian, in 1892. Wister described the story as a comic "burlesque" concerning the "true" story of the Dragon. It is a romantic story set at Christmastime in the early 13th century. The book was a surprise success, going through four editions over the next ten years.
Dragon of Wantley : There is a representation of the dragon above More Hall on the opposite side of the valley to Wharncliffe Crags. The snaking stone wall culminating in a carved dragon's head can be found at the southern edge of Bitholmes Wood (Grid Ref:SK 295 959). There is also a bas-relief frieze of a knight killing a dragon, said to be a representation of More and the Dragon of Wantley, in the entrance hall to Sheffield Town Hall.
Dragon of Wantley : In his Chronicles of Barsetshire novels, Anthony Trollope names an inn and posting house in Barchester The Dragon of Wantley. When it is first mentioned, in The Warden, this pub is owned by John Bold, a local doctor, who is pursuing a dispute with the church authorities over the alleged misapplication of ecclesiastical revenues. The dragon is also mentioned in the first paragraph of the opening chapter of Sir Walter Scott's novel Ivanhoe where Scott writes "In that pleasant district of Merry England which is watered by the River Don, there extended in ancient times a large forest...Here haunted of yore the fabulous Dragon of Wantley." In Chapter XXXVIII of David Copperfield, David writes a letter to Mr. Spenlow in which David "addressed him...as if...he had been an Ogre, or the Dragon of Wantley." In Chapter III of The Railway Children by E. Nesbit, the children name trains after dragons, dubbing one "the Worm of Wantley."
Dragon of Wantley : A True Relation of the Dreadful Combat between More of More-Hall, and the Dragon of Wantley. [Broadside ballad published by Randall Taylor, London] (1685). Hallamshire: The History and Topography of the Parish of Sheffield in the County of York by Joseph Hunter (1819), pp. 55 & 56. "Henry Carey", in The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, vol. 15 by Norman Gillespie pp. 127 & 128.
Dragon of Wantley : The full text of The Dragon of Wantley (bowdlerised version) at Wikisource The Dragon of Wantley (unexpurgated) The Dragon of Wantley public domain audiobook at LibriVox The Dragon of Wantley opera on YouTube
Carbuncle (legendary creature) : Carbuncle (Spanish: Carbunclo, Carbunco or Carbúnculo) is a legendary species of small animal in South American folklore, specifically in the mining folklore of northern Chile. The animal is said to contain riches of some sort; in some versions it is a precious stone that gives fortune and good luck to its owner. It may originate from the medieval guivre, which was said to have a carbuncle on its head. The description of the animal vary. The chaplain and explorer Martín del Barco Centenera describes it in La Argentina (1602) as "a smallish animal, with a shining mirror on its head, like a glowing coal". As explained in the Book of Imaginary Beings Barco Centenera "underwent many hardships hunting the reaches of Paraguayan rivers and jungles for the elusive creature; he never found it." In the same book, the mirror in the carbuncle's head is said to be akin to two lights observed by Spanish explorers in the Strait of Magellan. Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés identified these lights with the gemstones hidden in the brains of dragons. The association is likely derived from the 7th-century Etymologiae of Isidore of Seville. In Chile some say it moves like a firefly in the night. In Tarapacá, it is said to look like a bivalve with a strong white-blue shine from within the shell which can be observed from a great distance. This "bivalve" is said to have the form of a maize ear, with more than four feet. The "bivalve" Carbunclo is said to have a very good sense of hearing, which it uses to hide from people by closing its shell to be mistaken for a stone. The shining in the interior of the carbuncle is thought by some miners to come from the gold it has inside. During the great drought of 1924–25 there were reported sightings of carbunclos on moonless nights. Around 1925 a family of carbunclos was seen descending from the mountain of Tulahuén towards Río Grande (Coquimbo Region). Also in northern Chile, a man named Gaspar Huerta is said to have encountered a carbunclo while digging an acequia, but reportedly he could not see what its shape was because he killed it on the spot to recover its riches.
Carbuncle (legendary creature) : In the Chilote mythology of southern Chile the carbunclo is said to be the "guardian of the metals". Descriptions of it vary, from a luminescent small dog, a luminescent bivalve, a cat with a luminescent chin, or a greenish-red fiery light reminiscent of fireflies. The carbunclo is said to manifest itself at night around the Southern Hemisphere winter solstice (late June). According to the myth, someone who sees the carbunclo may find treasures via the following careful steps: First, a lasso or similar objects is to be thrown towards the carbunclo as to trap it. The carbunclo will respond by vanishing along with the object. Then the treasure hunter who threw the object has to return to the site in the morning before dawn and search for the object, which will be completely buried except for a small part that sticks above the ground, often at the feet of a thorny calafate. It is there that the treasure hunter must dig for the treasure. The treasure has to be unearthed, however, in the coming night with a new shovel and in the company of an old widow holding a black cat. With each additional vara (distance of approximately one meter) dug in depth, the black cat has to be thrown into the hole. It will subsequently disappear, but will reappear in the hands of the widow just before the next vara is dug up. The cat is then thrown again and the whole procedure is repeated until the treasure is encountered. If the treasure hunter shows any sign of fear the treasure will turn into rock, and if the cat not is not thrown with each vara, the treasure hunter will die as a result of the noxious gases that the treasure releases.
Carbuncle (legendary creature) : The English word carbuncle and the Spanish word carbunclo comes from the Latin carbunculus, meaning "little coal". Carbunclo is used to refer to ruby because this gemstone's shine is said to resemble the glow of hot coal. However, it is garnet and not ruby that is said to have been the mineralogical identity of the so-called "carbuncle of the ancients". According to the Book of Imaginary Beings 16th-century Spanish conquistadors began to apply the name to a mysterious small animal they saw in South America.
Iron Throne (A Song of Ice and Fire) : The Iron Throne, in the fantasy novel series A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin, is the throne of the monarch of the fictional Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, and serves as a metonym for the monarchy of Westeros as an institution. The success of the HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones has made the show's version of the royal seat an icon of the entire media franchise. Martin said in 2013, "Say 'Game of Thrones', and people think of the HBO Iron Throne." Martin called the depiction of the throne in his 2014 A Song of Ice and Fire companion book The World of Ice & Fire "absolutely right". He has noted repeatedly that none of the previous media representations of the throne—including books, games and the TV series—closely resemble what he had in mind when writing his novels.
Iron Throne (A Song of Ice and Fire) : In the series, the Iron Throne is both a physical seat of office as well as a metonym for the monarchy of Westeros. Martin establishes in A Game of Thrones (1996) that after seizing control of six of the Seven Kingdoms, Targaryen ruler Aegon the Conqueror had made a throne for himself from the swords of his vanquished enemies, fused by dragonfire. Aegon had established King's Landing as the royal capital, and the Iron Throne itself sits in the Red Keep. Martin writes that according to legend, Aegon kept the blades sharp so that no ruler should ever sit comfortably. Centuries later, kings still cut themselves on the throne; it is a common belief that such rulers are therefore unfit to rule.
Iron Throne (A Song of Ice and Fire) : The HBO television adaptation of the series, Game of Thrones, premiered in 2011. The design of the Iron Throne for the show was conceived by its production designer Gemma Jackson, and the prop maker Gavin Jones constructed the piece. The show's popularity has made its version of the throne an icon of the entire media franchise. It has been parodied in magazines and used in merchandising. Several "promotional thrones" travel the world with show-sponsored exhibits and for fan events. In June 2014, Queen Elizabeth II visited the Belfast set of Game of Thrones and was photographed examining the Iron Throne set piece from the series, though she declined to sit on it. Though Martin had previously stated that the HBO version of the Iron Throne did not match his idea of how it should appear ideally, in 2013 he called its design "terrific" and claimed to own all of the merchandised replicas. He added: I'm a realist about these things, and I know perfectly well that for millions of television viewers worldwide, the HBO Iron Throne is THE Iron Throne, and always will be. It turns up everywhere, on book covers, on magazines, in places that have no connection to the show. Say "GAME OF THRONES," and people think of the HBO Iron Throne. Of the feasibility of recreating the throne as depicted in The World of Ice & Fire, Martin said in October 2014: Now, you can’t do this in the TV show. It’s not something I criticize HBO for. The thrones they have are enormously large and cumbersome to move and expensive to build. To build this monstrosity, would blow the budget of an entire episode, and it wouldn’t fit in the set. Our program is in the Paint Hall in Belfast in Northern Ireland. The Paint Hall is the largest sound stage in Europe. It [was] originally part of the old [Harland and] Wolff shipyard where they built the Titanic. We’ve divided it into a number of pods, and our throne room is in one of them. It’s a very large set, but it’s not large enough. The HBO television series House of the Dragon, an adaptation of Martin's novel Fire & Blood, includes a larger iteration of the Iron Throne which more closely resembles the Throne as Martin envisioned it. The image of Sean Bean as Ned Stark sitting in the Iron Throne is featured on the covers of the 2011 Season 1 DVD and Blu-ray Disc sets, released in March 2012. In June 2021, a statue of the Iron Throne was unveiled as part of the Scenes in the Square sculpture trail in Leicester Square, London, to mark 10 years since the release of the first episode.
Iron Throne (A Song of Ice and Fire) : HBO has licensed the likeness of its Iron Throne for merchandising since the show's premiere, including T-shirts and small replicas of varying sizes. In June 2012 the network began selling custom made, life size replicas of its Iron Throne for $30,000. HBO even partnered with Brewery Ommegang to produce Iron Throne Blonde Ale, released in March 2013. The officially licensed merchandise includes: Game of Thrones 7' 2" Iron Throne Replica Game of Thrones 14" Iron Throne Replica by ThinkGeek Game of Thrones 7" Iron Throne Replica by Dark Horse/Gentle Giant Studios Game of Thrones Iron Throne Room Construction Set by McFarlane Toys Game of Thrones Iron Throne Bookend (7.5") Game of Thrones Iron Throne Ornament (4.25") Game of Thrones Iron Throne Stocking Holder (5.5") Game of Thrones Iron Throne Blonde Ale from Brewery Ommegang Various T-shirts == References ==
Ušumgallu : Ušumgallu or Ushumgallu (Sumerian: 𒁔 𒃲ušum.gal, "Great Dragon") was one of the three horned snakes in Akkadian mythology, along with the Bašmu and Mušmaḫḫū. Usually described as a lion-dragon demon, it has been somewhat speculatively identified with the four-legged, winged dragon of the late 3rd millennium BCE.
Ušumgallu : Tiamat is said to have "clothed the raging lion-dragon with fearsomeness" in the Epic of Creation, Enuma Elish. The god Nabû was described as "he who tramples the lion-dragon" in the hymn to Nabû. The late neo-Assyrian text "Myth of the Seven Sages" recalls: "The fourth (of the seven apkallu's, "sages", is) Lu-Nanna, (only) two-thirds Apkallu, who drove the ušumgallu-dragon from É-ninkarnunna, the temple of Ištar of Šulgi." Aššur-nāṣir-apli II placed golden icons of ušumgallu at the pedestal of Ninurta. Its name became a royal and divine epithet, for example: ušumgal kališ parakkī, "unrivaled ruler of all the sanctuaries". Marduk is called "the ušumgallu-dragon of the great heavens". In the god list An = Anum Ušumgal is listed as the sukkal (vizier) of Ninkilim.
Ušumgallu : Anzû, a massive bird whose death was sometimes credited to Ninurta Dragon, killed by Ninurta Seven-headed serpent, killed by Ninurta == References ==
A Song of Ice and Fire : A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of high fantasy novels by the American author George R. R. Martin. He began writing the first volume, A Game of Thrones, in 1991, and published it in 1996. Martin, who originally envisioned the series as a trilogy, has so far released five out of seven planned volumes. The fifth and most recent entry in the series, A Dance with Dragons, was published in 2011. Martin continues to write the sixth novel, titled The Winds of Winter. A seventh novel, A Dream of Spring, is planned to follow. A Song of Ice and Fire depicts a violent world dominated by political realism. What little supernatural power exists is confined to the margins of the known world. Moral ambiguity pervades the books, and their stories continually raise questions concerning loyalty, pride, human sexuality, piety, and the morality of violence. The story unfolds through a rotating set of subjective points of view, the success or survival of any of which is never assured. Each chapter is told from a limited third-person perspective, drawn from a group of characters that grows from nine in the first novel to 31 by the fifth. The novels are set on the fictional continents of Westeros and Essos. Martin's stated inspirations for the series include the Wars of the Roses and The Accursed Kings, a series of French historical novels by Maurice Druon. The work as a whole consists of three interwoven plots: a dynastic war among several families for control of Westeros, the growing threat posed by the powerful supernatural Others from the northernmost region of Westeros, and the ambition of the daughter of the deposed Westerosi king to return from her exile in Essos and assume the Iron Throne. As of 2024, more than 90 million copies in 47 languages had been sold. The fourth and fifth volumes reached the top of the New York Times Best Seller lists when published in 2005 and 2011. Among the many derived works are several prequel novellas, two series for television, a comic book adaptation, and several card, board, and video games. The series has received critical acclaim for its world-building, characters, and narrative.
A Song of Ice and Fire : A Song of Ice and Fire takes place in a fictional world in which seasons last for years and end unpredictably. Nearly three centuries before the events of the first novel, the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros were united under the Targaryen dynasty, establishing military supremacy through their control of dragons. The Targaryens ruled for three hundred years, continuing beyond the extinction of the dragons. Their dynasty eventually ended with a rebellion led by Lord Robert Baratheon, in which Aerys II "the Mad King" Targaryen was killed and Robert proclaimed king of the Seven Kingdoms. At the beginning of A Game of Thrones, 15 years have passed since Robert's rebellion, with a nine-year-long summer coming to an end. The principal story chronicles the power struggle for the Iron Throne among the great Houses of Westeros following the death of King Robert in A Game of Thrones. Robert's heir apparent, the 13-year-old Joffrey, is immediately proclaimed king through the machinations of his mother, Queen Cersei Lannister. When Lord Eddard "Ned" Stark, Robert's closest friend and chief advisor, discovers that Joffrey and his siblings are the product of incest between Cersei and her twin brother Ser Jaime Lannister, Eddard attempts to unseat Joffrey, but is betrayed and executed for treason. In response, Robert's brothers Stannis and Renly lay separate claims to the throne. During this period of instability, two of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros attempt to become independent from the Iron Throne: Eddard's eldest son Robb is proclaimed King in the North, while Lord Balon Greyjoy desires to recover the sovereignty of his region, the Iron Islands. The so-called "War of the Five Kings" is in full progress by the middle of the second book, A Clash of Kings. The second part of the story takes place in the far north of Westeros, where an 8,000-year-old wall of ice, simply called "the Wall", defends the Seven Kingdoms from supernatural creatures known as the Others. The Wall's sentinels, the Sworn Brotherhood of the Night's Watch, also protect the realm from incursions by the "wildlings" or "Free Folk", a number of human tribes living on the north side of the Wall. The Night's Watch story is told primarily through the point of view of Jon Snow, Lord Eddard Stark's bastard son. Jon follows in the footsteps of his uncle Benjen Stark and joins the Watch at a young age, rising quickly through the ranks. He eventually becomes Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. In the third volume, A Storm of Swords, the Night's Watch storyline becomes increasingly entangled with the War of the Five Kings. The third storyline follows Daenerys Targaryen, daughter of Aerys II, the last Targaryen king. On the continent of Essos, east of Westeros across the Narrow Sea, Daenerys is married off by her elder brother Viserys Targaryen to a powerful warlord, but slowly becomes an independent and intelligent ruler in her own right. Her rise to power is aided by the historic birth of three dragons, hatched from eggs given to her as wedding gifts. The three dragons soon become not only a symbol of her bloodline and her claim to the throne, but also devastating weapons of war, which help her in the conquest of Slaver's Bay. The story follows her year-long conflict with the region's city states, in which she aims to consolidate power, disrupt the Essosi slave trade, and gather support for her ambitions to reclaim Westeros.
A Song of Ice and Fire : Modern fantasy may often embrace strangeness, but A Song of Ice and Fire series is generally praised for what is perceived as a sort of medieval realism. Believing that magic should be used moderately in the epic fantasy genre, Martin set out to make the story feel more like historical fiction than contemporary fantasy, with less emphasis on magic and sorcery and more on battles, political intrigue, and the characters. Though the amount of magic has gradually increased throughout the story, the series is still to end with less overt magic than most contemporary fantasies. In Martin's eyes, literary effective magic needs to represent strange and dangerous forces beyond human comprehension, not advanced alien technologies or formulaic spells. As such, the characters understand only the natural aspects of their world, but not the magical elements like the Others. Since Martin drew on historical sources to build the world of A Song of Ice and Fire, Damien G. Walter of The Guardian saw a strong resemblance between Westeros and England in the period of the Wars of the Roses. The Atlantic's Adam Serwer regarded A Song of Ice and Fire as "more a story of politics than one of heroism, a story about humanity wrestling with its baser obsessions than fulfilling its glorious potential", where the emergent power struggle stems from the feudal system's repression and not from the fight between good and evil. Martin not only wanted to reflect the frictions of the medieval class structures in the novels, but also explore the consequences of the leaders' decisions, as general goodness does not automatically make competent leaders and vice versa. A common theme in the fantasy genre is the battle between good and evil, which Martin rejects for not mirroring the real world. Attracted to gray characters, Martin instead endorses William Faulkner's view that only the human heart in conflict with itself was worth writing about. Martin explores the questions of redemption and character change in the A Song of Ice and Fire series. The multiple viewpoint structure allows characters to be explored from many sides, such that the supposed villains can provide their viewpoint. Although fantasy comes from an imaginative realm, Martin sees an honest necessity to reflect the real world where people, even beloved people, sometimes die ugly deaths. Main characters are killed off so that the reader will not expect the supposed hero to survive, and instead will feel the same tension and fear that the characters might. The novels also reflect the substantial death rates in war. The deaths of supernumerary extras, or of orcs or their equivalents, have no major effect on readers, whereas a friend's death has much more emotional impact. Martin prefers a hero's sacrifice to say something profound about human nature. According to Martin, the fantasy genre rarely focuses on sex and sexuality, instead often treating sexuality in a juvenile way or neglecting it completely. Martin, however, considers sexuality an important driving force in human life that should not be excluded from the narrative. Providing sensory detail for an immersive experience is more important than plot advancement for Martin, who aims to let the readers experience the novels' sex scenes, "whether it's a great transcendent, exciting, mind blowing sex, or whether it's disturbing, twisted, dark sex, or disappointing perfunctory sex." Martin was fascinated by medieval contrasts where knights venerated their ladies with poems and wore their favors in tournaments while their armies mindlessly raped women in wartime. The non-existent concept of adolescence in the Middle Ages served as a model for Daenerys' sexual activity at the age of 13 in the books. The novels also allude to the incestuous practices in the Ptolemaic dynasty of Ancient Egypt to keep their bloodlines pure. Martin provides a variety of female characters to explore the place of women in a patriarchal society. Writing all characters as human beings with the same basic needs, dreams, and influences, his female characters are to cover the same wide spectrum of human traits as the males.
A Song of Ice and Fire : Outline of A Song of Ice and Fire franchise
A Song of Ice and Fire : George R. R. Martin's official website So Spake Martin, Collection of statements, correspondences and interviews by George R. R. Martin A Song of Ice and Fire series listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Song of Ice and Fire at the Internet Book List
Serpents in the Bible : Serpents (Hebrew: נָחָשׁ, romanized: nāḥāš) are referred to in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. The symbol of a serpent or snake played important roles in the religious traditions and cultural life of ancient Greece, Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Canaan. The serpent was a symbol of evil power and chaos from the underworld as well as a symbol of fertility, life, healing, and rebirth. Nāḥāš (נחש‎), Hebrew for "snake", is also associated with divination, including the verb form meaning "to practice divination or fortune-telling". Nāḥāš occurs in the Torah to identify the serpent in the Garden of Eden. Throughout the Hebrew Bible, it is also used in conjunction with seraph to describe vicious serpents in the wilderness. The tannin, a dragon monster, also occurs throughout the Hebrew Bible. In the Book of Exodus, the staves of Moses and Aaron are turned into serpents, a nāḥāš for Moses, a tannin for Aaron. In the New Testament, the Book of Revelation makes use of ancient serpent and the Dragon several times to identify Satan or the Devil (Revelation 12:9; 20:2). The serpent is most often identified with the hubristic Satan, and sometimes with Lilith. The narrative of the Garden of Eden and the fall of humankind constitute a mythological tradition shared by all the Abrahamic religions, with a presentation more or less symbolic of Judeo-Christian morals and religious beliefs, which had an overwhelming impact on human sexuality, gender roles, and sex differences both in the Western and Islamic civilizations. In mainstream (Nicene) Christianity, the doctrine of the Fall is closely related to that of original sin or ancestral sin. Unlike Christianity, the other major Abrahamic religions, Judaism and Islam, do not have a concept of "original sin", and instead have developed varying other interpretations of the Eden narrative.
Serpents in the Bible : In the Hebrew Bible, the Book of Genesis refers to a serpent who triggered the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden in Eden (Gen 3:1–20). Serpent is also used to describe sea monsters. Examples of these identifications are in the Book of Isaiah where a reference is made to a serpent-like dragon named Leviathan (Isaiah 27:1), and in the Book of Amos where a serpent resides at the bottom of the sea (Amos 9:3). Serpent figuratively describes biblical places such as Egypt (Jer 46:22), and the city of Dan (Gen 49:17). The prophet Jeremiah also compares the King of Babylon to a serpent (Jer 51:34).
Serpents in the Bible : Media related to Snakes in the Bible at Wikimedia Commons
Bakunawa : The Bakunawa is a serpent, that looks like a Dragon in Philippine mythology. It is believed to be the cause of eclipses, earthquakes, rains, and wind. The movements of the Bakunawa served as a geomantic calendar system for ancient Filipinos and were part of the rituals of the babaylan priestess. It is usually depicted with a characteristic looped tail and a single horn on the nose. It was believed to inhabit either the sky or the underworld. Due to increasing trade contacts with South Asia and the Indianization of Southeast Asia, the Bakunawa later became syncretized with the Nāga, Rahu, and Ketu of Hindu-Buddhist mythology.
Bakunawa : Bakunawa is believed to be originally a compound word meaning "bent snake", from Proto-Western-Malayo-Polynesian *ba(ŋ)kuq ("bent", "curved") and *sawa ("large snake", "python"). Spelling variants include Vakonawa, Baconaua, or Bakonaua.
Bakunawa : "No. 42. When the moon is eclipsed, the Indians of various districts generally go out into the street or into the open fields, with bells, panastanes, etc. They strike them with great force and violence in order that they might thereby protect the moon which they say is being eaten or swallowed by the dragon, tiger, or crocodile. And the worst thing is that if they wish to say "the eclipse of the moon" it is very common in the Philippines to use this locution, saying "the dragon, tiger, or crocodile is swallowing the moon." The Tagalogs also make use of it and say, Linamon [ni] laho [ang] buwan [trans.: "Laho swallowed the moon"]." Fr. Tomas Ortiz, Practica del Ministerio (1731) via Zuniga's Estadismo (1893)
Bakunawa : The Bakunawa is also sometimes known as Naga, from syncretization with the Hindu-Buddhist serpent deity, Nāga. It was also syncretized with the Hindu-Buddhist navagraha pair, Rahu and Ketu, deities who were responsible for eclipses of the sun and moon, respectively. Versions of the Bakunawa also existed in other myths in the Philippines, sharing the common theme of being the cause of eclipses. The most similar to the Bakunawa is the Tagalog Laho (derived from Rahu; also known as Nono or Buaya), a serpent-like dragon that causes moon eclipses. In Kapampangan mythology, Láwû is depicted as a bird-like dragon or serpent that causes both solar and lunar eclipses, however, its features are closer to the demon Rahu. Both the words laho and láwû mean "eclipse" (also in modern parlance "to disappear" or "to vanish") in the Tagalog and Kapampangan language. Other mythical creatures related to the Bakunawa include the Hiligaynon Bawa, Bauta, or Olimaw; the Mandaya and Manobo Tambanakua; the Bagobo Minokawa; and the Maranao Arimaonga. However, these do not always appear serpent-like. The Maranao Arimaonga for example, is depicted as a lion-like dragon; while the Hiligaynon Olimaw is a winged serpent; the Bagobo Minokawa is a dragon-like giant bird; and the Mandaya Tambanokano and Manobo Tambanakua is a giant crab (sometimes also a giant tarantula or scorpion).
Bakunawa : There is a short Hiligaynon song in 3/4 time that children used to sing during lunar eclipses:
Bakunawa : Figures of the Bakunawa's head decorate the hilts of many ancient Filipino swords. These swords that originate in Panay are said to bestow upon the hangaway or mandirigma (sacred warriors) the fearful presence and power of the Bakunawa (or whatever deity/animal they have on their deity hilt) when they wield their swords in combat.
Bakunawa : A children's game called Bulan Bulan, Buwan Buwan, or Bakunawa is played in the Philippines. It has 6–8 players arranged in a circle. A player acts as the buwan/bulan (moon) while another player acts as the Bakunawa (eclipse), chosen either through Jack-en-poy, “maalis taya”, or “maiba taya.” The other participants stand in a circle facing the center and holding each other's hands. The buwan/bulan stands inside the circle, while the Bakunawa stands outside.
Bakunawa : The Bakunawa is a superweapon used by the main antagonist, Merga, in the video game, Freedom Planet 2, along with other creatures derived from Philippine culture. In the 2015 GMA Network show Alamat, Bakunawa is voiced by Tonipet Gaba in the episode: "Ang bakunawa at ang pitong buwan." In the massively multiplayer online role-playing game Ragnarok Online, Bakunawa/Bakonawa is one of the Special MVP Monsters on the game. In the mobile game EverWing, Bakunawa is one of the unlockable dragon sidekicks. Sisu the water dragon is a main character in the 2021 Disney animated film Raya and the Last Dragon. Portrayed by Roi Vinzon as Alejandro & mata ng Bakunawa main antagonist And main Rival of Agila in GMA network Fanta series Bong Revilla Concept series Agimat ng Agila in 2021.
Bakunawa : Batangas Coi Coi-Vilu Horned Serpent Jormugandr Leviathan Makara == References ==
Cadborosaurus : Cadborosaurus, nicknamed Caddy by journalist Archie Wills, is a sea serpent in the folklore of regions of the Pacific Coast of North America. Its name is derived from Cadboro Bay in Greater Victoria, British Columbia, and the Greek root word "saurus" meaning lizard or reptile.
Cadborosaurus : Cadborosaurus willsi is said by witnesses to resemble a serpent with vertical coils or humps in tandem behind the horse-like head and long neck, with a pair of small elevating front flippers, and either a pair of hind flippers, or a pair of large webbed hind flippers fused to form a large fan-like tail region that provides forward propulsion. Dr. Paul LeBlond, director of Earth and Ocean Sciences at UBC, and Dr. Edward Blousfield, retired chief zoologist of the Canadian Museum of Nature, state every elongated animal has been put forward as an explanation for Caddy. These animals include Conger eels, humpback whales, elephant seals, ribbon or oarfish, basking sharks, and sea lions. LeBlond and Blousfield state no known creature matches the characteristics found in over 200 sightings collected over a century, noting that Caddy is described as having flippers both anteriorly and posteriorly. Darren Naish contends that LeBlond and Blousfield are engaging in "bad science" and have incorrectly assumed that different, conflicting eyewitness reports are all descriptions of one species when various accounts "are most parsimoniously interpreted as descriptions of many things."
Cadborosaurus : A native image that fits Caddy's description has been traditionally used throughout Alaska. The image indicates that Caddy or a Caddy-like creature moves north to Vancouver when the waters warm. The Inuit of Alaska have even put the picture on their canoes to keep the creature away. The Cadborosaurus is called hiyitl'iik by the Manhousat people who live on Sidney Inlet, t'chain-ko in Sechelt mythology, and numkse lee kwala by the Comox band of Vancouver Island. However, it has also been argued that these Native stories reflect a diversity of different animals. Some mythical, some real, and to just lump them into the Cadborosaurus category ignores their diverse origins and often independent backgrounds.
Cadborosaurus : There have been more than 300 claimed sightings during the past 200 years, including Deep Cove in Saanich Inlet, and Island View Beach, both of which are also on the Saanich Peninsula, and at San Francisco Bay, California.
Cadborosaurus : 1930: On 10 November at Glacier Island near Valdez a skeleton was found in ice. The skeleton was 24 feet (7.3 m) long with flippers. Some of the remains were preserved in Cordova for scientific study. The creature is thought to be a whale. 1934: In November on Henry Island near Prince Rupert, badly decomposed remains about 30 feet (9.1 m) long were found. Dr. Neal Carter examined the remains. The creature was identified as a basking shark. 1937: In October a purported Cadborosaurus carcass was retrieved from the stomach of a sperm whale in Naden Harbour and photographed. A sample of this carcass was sent to the BC Provincial Museum, where it was tentatively identified as a fetal baleen whale by museum director Francis Kermode. 1941: A carcass called "Sarah the sea hag" was found on Kitsilano Beach. W.A. Clemens and Ian McTaggart-Cowan identified it as a shark. 1947: In December at Vernon Bay, Barkley Sound, Vancouver Island a 45-foot (14 m) creature was found. It was identified as a shark. 1950: In Delake, Oregon a creature was found with 4 tails and thick hair. It was identified as a whale shark. 1956: Somewhere near Dry Harbour south of Yakutat, Alaska a 100-foot (30 m) long carcass was found with 2-inch (5.1 cm) long hair. Trevor Kincaid is quoted as saying "description fits no known creature." W.A. Clemens identified the carcass as a Baird's beaked whale. 1962: In April near Ucluelet a 14-foot (4.3 m) long carcass was found with elephant like head. The carcass was dragged ashore by Simon Peter and later thought to be an elephant seal. 1963: In September near Oak Harbor, Whidbey Island a carcass was found with a head resembling a horse. A. D. Welander of Fisheries thought it was a basking shark.
Cadborosaurus : 1968: In August, W. Hagelund claims to have caught a baby Caddy near De Courcy Island only to return it to the water. 1991: In July, on Johns Island (San Juan Islands), Phyllis Harsh claims to have caught a small, 2-foot (60 cm) baby Caddy and returned it to the water.
Cadborosaurus : Bousfield, E. L., & P. H. LeBlond (1995). "An account of Cadborosaurus willsi, new genus, new species, a large aquatic reptile from the Pacific coast of North America". Amphipacifica Vol 1 Suppl. 1: pp. 1–25, 19 figs. Jupp, Ursula. (1988, reprinted 1993). Cadboro: A Ship, A Bay, A Sea-Monster. Jay Editions.
Cadborosaurus : 2009 MSNBC Article
Gaasyendietha : Gaasyendietha, also known as the meteor dragon, according to Seneca mythology, is a giant serpent that dwells in the deep areas of rivers and lakes of Canada, especially Lake Ontario. This serpent could fly on a trail of fire, and it could also spew fire, which has led to it being viewed as analogous to European dragons. It is also known as the 'meteor dragon', in reference to its supposed origin from a meteoroid that had impacted the Earth. It is also capable of crossing the heavens on a trail of fire. In the tale "Ganyadjigowa", the hero Ganyadjigowa (The Mudhen) was killed by Gaasyendietha, in the form of an old man.
Gaasyendietha : Hewitt, J.B.N. (1918). "Seneca Fiction, Legends, and Myths". Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 32: 37. Retrieved Aug 17, 2018. Fee, Christopher R.; Webb, Jeffery B. (2016). American Myths, Legends, and Tall Tales. ABC-CLIO. p. 411. ISBN 978-1-61069-568-8. Retrieved Aug 17, 2018. Toronto Urban Legends: The Great Serpent of Lake Ontario
Gloucester sea serpent : The Gloucester sea serpent is a legendary creature reportedly seen around and off the coast of Gloucester, Massachusetts and Cape Ann area in the United States. The heyday of sightings began in August 1817 and continued into 1818–1819. Described as a massive serpent-like creature with humps along its back, the Gloucester Sea Serpent has been the subject of numerous sightings and tales of encounters by fishermen and sailors. The earliest alleged sighting of such a creature off Cape Ann was recorded in 1638 by John Josselyn. Occasional sightings continue into the 21st century.
Gloucester sea serpent : Although the Indigenous People of Cape Ann had told the settlers about a sea serpent, the earliest recorded sighting of the Gloucester Sea Serpent was in 1817, when a group of fishermen reportedly saw a 60 ft (18 m) serpent-like creature with a head like a turtle swimming in the waters off the coast of Gloucester. The sightings continued sporadically throughout the 19th century, with many local fishermen claiming to have seen the creature while out at sea. One of the most famous sightings of the Gloucester Sea Serpent occurred in August 1817, when a group of men aboard the schooner "Caravan" reported seeing a large creature with a head like a serpent and a hump-backed body swimming alongside their vessel. The crew fired a cannon at the creature, but it disappeared beneath the water and was not seen again.
Gloucester sea serpent : Over the years, numerous other sightings of the Gloucester Sea Serpent have been reported, with descriptions of the creature varying widely. Some have described it as a long, snake-like creature, while others have reported seeing a hump-backed creature with a head like a horse or a dinosaur. Because hundreds, and possibly even thousands of people saw the creature, combined with the Linnaean Society's report, this serpent is one of the most well documented sea serpents ever. Despite the numerous sightings and tales of encounters, the existence of the Gloucester Sea Serpent remains a subject of debate and skepticism. Some have speculated that the creature could be a large species of eel, while others have suggested that it may be a hoax or the result of misidentification of known marine animals. The last sighting may have been when the crew of a Gloucester fishing vessel claimed to have had an up close encounter with a sea serpent matching that description circa 1980. The fishermen had initially pledged not to say a word to anyone about their experience, but the story got out. When questioned, as a group they said they were experienced fishermen and knew what they saw. It was unlike anything they had ever seen, and when it turned its head and stared straight at them, its serpentine eyes were pure evil. The men never spoke of it again.
Gloucester sea serpent : Such attention has drawn the notice of those within the Cryptozoology community, including the field's founder, Bernard Heuvelmans. Heuvelmans outlined sightings of the creature in his book, In the Wake of the Sea-Serpents, originally titled, Le Grand Serpent-de-Mer. Several witnesses had reported seeing a stinger or spear protruding from the head of the creature, which has led Joe Nickell to conclude that the creature is a narwhal.
Gloucester sea serpent : The creature has become a beloved symbol of the town of Gloucester, with many local businesses and organizations using its image in their logos and promotional materials. The Gloucester Sea Serpent continues to fascinate and intrigue both locals and visitors alike. Charleston playwright William Crafts lampooned the reports of the serpent in his play The sea serpent; or, Gloucester hoax: A dramatic jeu d'esprit, in three acts, published in 1819.
Gloucester sea serpent : Thomas Handasyd Perkins § Gloucester Sea Serpent Linnaean Society of New England § Sea serpent
Gloucester sea serpent : Report of a committee of the Linnaean Society of New England, relative to a large marine animal, supposed to be a serpent, seen near Cape Ann, Massachusetts, in August 1817, Linnaean Society of New England Lore (podcast), A Deep Fear - Episode 59 (May 1, 2017)
Ikuchi : Ikuchi is a yōkai of the sea serpent type in Japanese legend. It has been described in two anecdote collections during the Edo period, namely Tankai (譚海) (1795) by Tsumura Sōan and Mimibukuro (耳嚢) (completed 1814) by Negishi Yasumori .
Ikuchi : According to Tankai ("Sea of Stories", 1795) by Tsumura Sōan, the ikuchi (ゐくち) is an extremely long fish dwelling in the deep waters off Hitachi Province (now Ibaraki Prefecture). It has only been spotted at night, sometimes rearing out of water and slinking over a ship, taking a long time to complete its passage, and leaving a residue of viscous oil. The sheer amount of oil needs to be dumped overboard lest the ship sink. It does not have much thickness supposedly, but spans a total length of several hundred jō(several thousand feet), requiring 1 or 2 koku (1+ or 2+ hours, perhaps little less than 3 hours) to finish hauling its whole length across the ship. Its body oil is said to have the consistency of funori (gummy substance derived from Gloiopeltis seaweed) and slickens the ship's deck so walking back and forth becomes impossible. Thus the ship needs be scrubbed and cleansed thoroughly after a visit by the ikuchi.
Ikuchi : In "Mimibukuro" ("Ear bag", 1782–1814) by Negishi Yasumori, there occurs a description of a similarly named creature called ikuji". This ikuji was said to appear in the western and southern seas of Japan, and it would get snagged on the bow of the ship. It had the colors similar to an eel, and was immeasurably long, perhaps several jō in length, and it would keep squirming on the bow for the length of 2, 3 days. The phrase "ikuji naki" ("lacking courage") purportedly derives from this creature's name. The author, Negishi, states that he heard from a certain informant that in the island of Hachijō-jima in Izu Province (the island is now incorporated into Tokyo Prefecture), there can be found small-sized ikuji which look like eels but have no eyes or mouth and form circular loops. Negishi thus conjectures that the (full grown) ikuji reported to dangle itself from the ship's bow, must actually be hanging like a ring on the bow and revolving around.
Ikuchi : The drawing of "ayakashi" in Toriyama Sekien's Konjaku Hyakki Shūi depicts an enormously long sea creature, said to appear in the seas of Western Japan, "slithering" over a ship for two or three days, depositing loads of oil, forcing the crew to "furiously bail" it out, for fear it would cause their ship to sink. The description of Sekien's ayakashi is closely similar to the ikuchi, and Japanese commentators have equate them, noting that ayakashi is merely a generic term for all sorts of strange phenomena (and monsters) of the sea.
Ikuchi : The ikuchi has depicted by Sekien's like a sea serpent and some sources categorize ikuchi as belonging to a class of sea serpents, or creature of uncertain identity, i.e., cryptids. It has been conjectured it might be unknown giant species of sea snakes. English translators of Sekien regard the "long thing" appearing out of the sea, not as the entire body of the sea-serpent like creature, but as a single strand of long "tendril" (tentacle) of the monster, suggesting this may be an imported lore of the kraken, a legendary giant cephalopod creature. An additional piece of lore associated with the ayakashi is that they are formed by the souls or ghosts of humans who have drowned and want others to join them.
Ikuchi : == References ==
Jörmungandr : In Norse mythology, Jörmungandr (Old Norse: Jǫrmungandr, lit. 'the Vast 'gand'', see Etymology), also known as the Midgard Serpent or World Serpent (Old Norse: Miðgarðsormr), is an unfathomably large sea serpent or worm who dwells in the world sea, encircling the Earth (Midgard) and biting his own tail, an example of an ouroboros. As a result of it surrounding Midgard (the Earth) it is referred to as the World Serpent. Jörmungandr releasing its tail is one of the signs of the beginning of Ragnarök (the final battle of the world). Jörmungandr is said to be the middle child of the trickster god Loki and the giantess Angrboða. According to the Prose Edda, Odin took Loki's three children by Angrboða – the wolf Fenrir, the goddess Hel, and the serpent Jörmungandr – and removed them from Asgard (the world of the Æsir). The serpent Jörmungandr was tossed into the great ocean that encircles Midgard. There the serpent grew so large that it was able to surround the Earth and grasp its own tail. The old Norse thunder-god, Thor, has an on-going feud with Jörmungandr in their epics and the two can be seen as archfoes. During Ragnarök, Thor and Jörmungandr will fight each other to the death.
Jörmungandr : The name Jǫrmungandr is a poetic title and consists of the prefix jǫrmun- and the word gandr. The prefix "jǫrmun-" denotes something huge, vast, or superhuman. The word "gandr" can mean a variety of things in Old Norse, but mainly refers to elongated entities and or supernatural beings. Gandr can refer to, among other things: snake, fjord, river, staff, cane, mast, penis, bind, and the like (mainly in "supernatural" or "living" senses). The term "Jörmungandr" therefore has several possible meanings in connection with its mythology, such as: "the vast serpent", "the vast river" (a synonym for the sea where he dwells), "the vast staff or stick" (a connection to the world tree Yggdrasil), as well as "the vast bind" (the serpent's coiling around the world, biting its own tail, symbolising the world's circle of life).
Jörmungandr : The major sources for myths about Jörmungandr are the Prose Edda, the skaldic poem Húsdrápa, and the Eddic poems Hymiskviða and Völuspá. Other sources include the early skaldic poem Ragnarsdrápa and kennings in other skaldic poems; for example, in Þórsdrápa, faðir lögseims, "father of the sea-thread", is used as a kenning for Loki. There are also several image stones depicting the story of Thor fishing for Jörmungandr.
Jörmungandr : There are three preserved myths detailing Thor's encounters with Jörmungandr:
Jörmungandr : Thor's fishing for Jörmungandr has been taken as one of the similarities between him and the Hindu god Indra, who in Vedic mythology slays the dragon Vritra, and has also been related to a Balto-Slavic motif of the storm god combatting a serpent. An alternative analysis of the episode by Preben Meulengracht Sørensen is that it was a youthful indiscretion on the part of Thor, retold to emphasize the order and balance of the cosmos, in which Jörmungandr played a vital role. John Lindow draws a parallel between Jörmungandr's biting of its own tail and the binding of Fenrir, as part of a recurring theme of the bound monster in Norse mythology, where an enemy of the gods is bound but destined to break free at Ragnarök.
Jörmungandr : Asteroid 471926 Jörmungandr was named after the mythological sea serpent. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 25 September 2018 (M.P.C. 111804).
Jörmungandr : Jörmungandr has made a variety of appearances in popculture media. Some notable examples include: Vikings (TV series) – Jörmungandr makes an appearance in season six of the History Channel television show Vikings. God of War (franchise) – Jörmungandr is a mainstay character in the video games God of War from 2018 and God of War Ragnarök from 2022.
Jörmungandr : Simek, Rudolf; Hall, Angela (trans.) (2000) [1993]. "Jǫrmungandr". Dictionary of Northern Mythology. Woodbridge, Suffolk / Rochester, New York: D.S. Brewer. p. 179. ISBN 0-85991-513-1.
Knucker : Knucker is a dialect word for a sort of water dragon, living in knuckerholes in Sussex, England. "The word comes from the Old English nicor which means "water monster" and is used in the poem Beowulf. It may also be related to the word "nixie", which is a form of water spirit, to "Old Nick", a euphemism for the devil, or to the words "Nykur" (Icelandic water horse), "Nickel" (German goblin), "Knocker" (Cornish goblin), "Näcken" and "Neck" (Scandinavian water men and water spirits), "Näkineiu" and "Näkk" (Estonian mermaid and singing water animal), and "Näkki" (Finnish water spirit)."
Knucker : The knucker is said to have wings, and is sometimes described as a sea serpent. The knucker has "a giant, slithering sea serpent's body, and cold, bold sea serpent's eyes and a deadly, hissing sea serpent's mouth".
Knucker : The most famous knucker lived, according to legend, at Lyminster. The knucker apparently caused a lot of trouble, consuming local livestock and even villagers, and so it was decided to slay the monster. A number of different legends recount how this was done. One version has the dragon slain by a knight-errant after the king of Sussex offered his daughter's hand in marriage to whoever rid them of the beast. Legend says that after marrying the princess, the knight settled in Lyminster and his gravestone, the Slayer's Slab, can be seen in Lyminster church. An alternative legend has the dragon outwitted by a local farmer's boy, called Jim Pulk or Jim Puttock, said in some versions to be from Wick, after the Mayor of Arundel offered a reward. He killed the dragon by cooking it a giant poisoned pie, which he took to the knuckerhole on a horse and cart. The dragon ate up pie, horse and cart. When it had expired the boy returned and cut off its head. In some versions he then dies himself, probably of the same poison he used on the dragon, though this is possibly a later addition designed to explain the Slayer's Slab. It was believed that knuckers could be found at knuckerholes in various places in Sussex, including Binsted, Lyminster, Lancing, Shoreham and Worthing. A knucker hole is a very deep round pool, which is considered to be infinitely deep. However, even though the knucker hole in Lyminster is only thirty feet (9 m) deep, a local legend says that the villagers tied together the six bellropes from the church tower and lowered them into the pool, but they could not reach the bottom.
Knucker : Simpson, Jacqueline (1973). The Folklore Of Sussex. Batsford.
Leviathan : The Leviathan ( liv-EYE-ə-thən; Hebrew: לִוְיָתָן, romanized: Līvyāṯān; Greek: Λεβιάθαν) is a sea serpent demon noted in theology and mythology. It is referenced in several books of the Hebrew Bible, including Psalms, the Book of Job, the Book of Isaiah, and the pseudepigraphical Book of Enoch. The Leviathan is often an embodiment of chaos, threatening to eat the damned when their lives are over. In the end, it is annihilated. Christian theologians identified Leviathan with the demon of the deadly sin envy. According to Ophite diagrams, the Leviathan encapsulates the space of the material world. In Gnosis, it encompasses the world like a sphere and incorporates the souls of those who are too attached to material things, so they cannot reach the realm of God's fullness beyond, from which all good emanates. In Hobbes, who draws on Job 41:24, the Leviathan becomes a metaphor for the omnipotence of the state, which maintains itself by educating all children in its favour, generation after generation. This idea of an eternal power that 'feeds' on its constantly growing citizens is based on a concept of education that mechanically shapes memory. It too is based on a good-evil dualism: a hypothetical natural law according to which man is a wolf to man, and the pedagogically mediated laws of the state as Leviathan for the purpose of containing such frightening conditions. The Leviathan of the Book of Job is a reflection of the older Canaanite Lotan, a primeval monster defeated by the god Baal Hadad. Parallels to the role of Mesopotamian Tiamat defeated by Marduk have long been drawn in comparative mythology, as have been wider comparisons to dragon and world serpent narratives, such as Indra slaying Vrtra or Thor slaying Jörmungandr. Leviathan also figures in the Hebrew Bible as a metaphor for a powerful enemy, notably Babylon (Isaiah 27:1). Some 19th-century scholars pragmatically interpreted it as referring to large aquatic creatures, such as the crocodile. The word later came to be used as a term for great whale and for sea monsters in general.
Leviathan : Gesenius (among others) argued the name לִוְיָתָן was derived from the root לוה lwh "to twine; to join", with an adjectival suffix ן-, for a literal meaning of "wreathed, twisted in folds". If it exists, the adjectival suffix ן- (as opposed to -ון) is otherwise unattested except perhaps in Nehushtan, whose etymology is unknown; the ת would also require explanation, as Nechushtan is formed from neḥšoeṯ and Leviathan from liveyah; the normal-pattern f.s. adjective would be לויון, liveyon. Other philologists, including Leskien, thought it a foreign loanword. A third school considers it a proper noun. Bauer proposed לוית+תן, for "wreath of serpent." Both the name and the mythological figure are a direct continuation of the Ugaritic sea monster Lôtān, one of the servants of the sea god Yammu defeated by Hadad in the Baal Cycle. The Ugaritic account has gaps, making it unclear whether some phrases describe him or other monsters at Yammu's disposal such as Tunannu (the biblical Tannin). Most scholars agree on describing Lôtān as "the fugitive serpent" (bṯn brḥ) but he may or may not be "the wriggling serpent" (bṯn ʿqltn) or "the mighty one with seven heads" (šlyṭ d.šbʿt rašm). His role seems to have been prefigured by the earlier serpent Têmtum whose death at the hands of Hadad is depicted in Syrian seals of the 18th–16th century BC. Sea serpents feature prominently in the mythology of the ancient Near East. They are attested by the 3rd millennium BC in Sumerian iconography depicting the god Ninurta overcoming a seven-headed serpent. It was common for Near Eastern religions to include a Chaoskampf: a cosmic battle between a sea monster representing the forces of chaos and a creator god or culture hero who imposes order by force. The Babylonian creation myth describes Marduk's defeat of the serpent goddess Tiamat, whose body was used to create the heavens and the earth. The most original of these myths date back to the Sumerians Genesis. Analogous to air as the element of life, which according to this conception is 'breathed out' again with death, Enlil here is regarded as the powerful spirit who created the earth in the midst of a cosmic freshwater primordial ocean. Leaving the earth surrounded by it (under water), he attached a bubble of breathable air to the top and subsequently became the leader of an organisation of three male groups of gods (Anunnaki). Specialising in different areas, they transformed the Mesopotamian steppe Eden into a fertile cultural landscape. They was accompanied by the 7 divine wombs under the leadership of the primordial mother earth Ninḫursag, who took on the important task of reproduction. This oldest known advanced civilisation of mankind emerged during Neolithic revolution; the seeds of biblical Genesis developed with it. Not only the creation of the world, the Garden of Eden and the production of a first human couple originate from there, but also the Flood, which Enlil unleashes by opening the gates to the cosmic primordial ocean embedded in sky. Background to these naratives summarised in the Athrahasis epic is an increasing overpopulation on part of the humans original created as labour slaves and other possibly real catastrophes (epidemics, mega-floods due to melting of glacial ice sheets), which the few survivors - like Noah's family - interpreted as attempts at destruction intended by the angry gods. This and the story that Noah / Anthrahasis was a pious priest strengthened the view of Leviathan as a cosmic sea dragon.
Leviathan : The Leviathan specifically is mentioned six times in the Tanakh. Job 41:1–34 is dedicated to describing him in detail: "Behold, the hope of him is in vain; shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him?" Included in God's lengthy description of his indomitable creation is Leviathan's fire-breathing ability, his impenetrable scales, and his overall indomitability in Job 41.In Psalm 104, God is praised for having made all things, including Leviathan, and in Isaiah 27:1, he is called the "tortuous serpent" who will be killed at the end of time. The mention of the Tannins in the Genesis creation narrative (translated as "great whales" in the King James Version), in Job, and in the Psalm do not describe them as harmful but as ocean creatures who are part of God's creation. The element of competition between God and the sea monster and the use of Leviathan to describe the powerful enemies of Israel may reflect the influence of the Mesopotamian and Canaanite legends or the contest in Egyptian mythology between the Apep snake and the sun god Ra. Alternatively, the removal of such competition may have reflected an attempt to naturalize Leviathan in a process that demoted it from deity to demon to monster.
Leviathan : Later Jewish sources describe Leviathan as a dragon who lives over the sources of the Deep and who, along with the male land-monster Behemoth, will be served up to the righteous at the end of time. The Book of Enoch (60:7–9) describes Leviathan as a female monster dwelling in the watery abyss (as Tiamat), while Behemoth is a male monster living in the desert of Dunaydin ("east of Eden"). When the Jewish midrash (explanations of the Tanakh) were being composed, it was held that God originally produced a male and a female leviathan, but lest in multiplying the species should destroy the world, he slew the female, reserving her flesh for the banquet that will be given to the righteous on the advent of the Messiah. A similar description appears in Book of Enoch (60:24), which describes how the Behemoth and Leviathan will be prepared as part of an eschatological meal. Rashi's commentary on Genesis 1:21 repeats the tradition: the...sea monsters: The great fish in the sea, and in the words of the Aggadah (B.B. 74b), this refers to the Leviathan and its mate, for He created them male and female, and He slew the female and salted her away for the righteous in the future, for if they would propagate, the world could not exist because of them. הַתַּנִינִם is written. [I.e., the final "yud", which denotes the plural, is missing, hence the implication that the Leviathan did not remain two, but that its number was reduced to one.] – [from Gen. Rabbah 7:4, Midrash Chaseroth V'Yetheroth, Batei Midrashoth, vol 2, p. 225]. In the Talmud Baba Bathra 75 it is told that the Leviathan will be slain and its flesh served as a feast to the righteous in [the] Time to Come and its skin used to cover the tent where the banquet will take place. Those who do not deserve to consume its flesh beneath the tent may receive various vestments of the Leviathan varying from coverings (for the somewhat deserving) to amulets (for the least deserving). The remaining skin of the Leviathan will be spread onto the walls of Jerusalem, thereby illuminating the world with its brightness. The festival of Sukkot (Festival of Booths) therefore concludes with a prayer recited upon leaving the sukkah (booth): "May it be your will, Lord our God and God of our forefathers, that just as I have fulfilled and dwelt in this sukkah, so may I merit in the coming year to dwell in the sukkah of the skin of Leviathan. Next year in Jerusalem." The enormous size of the Leviathan is described by Johanan bar Nappaha, from whom proceeded nearly all the aggadot concerning this monster: "Once we went in a ship and saw a fish which put his head out of the water. He had horns upon which was written: 'I am one of the meanest creatures that inhabit the sea. I am three hundred miles in length, and enter this day into the jaws of the Leviathan'". When the Leviathan is hungry, reports Rabbi Dimi in the name of Rabbi Johanan, he sends forth from his mouth a heat so great as to make all the waters of the deep boil, and if he would put his head into Paradise no living creature could endure the odor of him. His abode is the Mediterranean Sea. In a legend recorded in the Midrash called Pirke de-Rabbi Eliezer it is stated that the fish which swallowed Jonah narrowly avoided being eaten by the Leviathan, which eats one whale each day. The body of the Leviathan, especially his eyes, possesses great illuminating power. This was the opinion of Rabbi Eliezer, who, in the course of a voyage in company with Rabbi Joshua, explained to the latter, when frightened by the sudden appearance of a brilliant light, that it probably proceeded from the eyes of the Leviathan. He referred his companion to the words of Job 41:18: "By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning". However, in spite of his supernatural strength, the leviathan is afraid of a small worm called "kilbit", which clings to the gills of large fish and kills them. In the eleventh-century piyyut (religious poem), Akdamut, recited on Shavuot (Pentecost), it is envisioned that, ultimately, God will slaughter the Leviathan, which is described as having "mighty fins" (and, therefore, a kosher fish, not an inedible snake or crocodile), and it will be served as a sumptuous banquet for all the righteous in Heaven. In the Zohar, the Leviathan is a metaphor for enlightenment. The Zohar remarks that the legend of the righteous eating the skin of the leviathan at the end of the days is not literal, and merely a metaphor for enlightenment. The Zohar also specifies in detail that the Leviathan has a mate. The Zohar also associates the metaphor of the leviathan with the "tzaddik" or righteous in Zohar 2:11b and 3:58a. The Zohar associates it with the "briach" the pole in the middle of the boards of the tabernacle in Zohar 2:20a. Both, are associated with the Sefira of Yesod. According to Abraham Isaac Kook, the Leviathan – a singular creature with no mate, "its tail is placed in its mouth" (Zohar) "twisting around and encompassing the entire world" (Rashi on Baba Batra 74b) – projects a vivid metaphor for the universe's underlying unity. This unity will only be revealed in the future, when the righteous will feast on the Leviathan.
Leviathan : Leviathan can also be used as an image of the devil, endangering both God's creatures—by attempting to eat them—and God's creation—by threatening it with upheaval in the waters of Chaos. A "Dragon" (Drakon), being the usual translation for the Leviathan in the Septuagint, appears in the Book of Revelation. Although the Old Testament nowhere identifies the Leviathan with the devil, the seven-headed dragon in the Book of Revelation is. By this the battle between God and the primordial chaos monsters shifts to a battle between God and the devil. Only once, in the Book of Job, the Leviathan is translated as Sea-Monster (ketos). In the following chapter, a seven-headed beast, described with the same features as the dragon before, rises from the waters endowing a Beast of the Earth with power. Dividing the beasts into monster of water and one of dry earth is probably a recalling of the monstrous pair Leviathan and Behemoth. In accordance with Isaiah 27:1, the dragon will be slain by God on the last day and cast into the abyss. The annihilation of the chaos-monster results in a new world of peace, without any trace of evil. Jerome comments on Psalm 104:26 that "this is the dragon that was cast out of Paradise, that beguiled Eve, and is permitted in this world to make sport of us. How many monks and clerics has it dashed headlong! "They all look to you to give them food in due time," for all the creatures of God live at His bidding." Peter Binsfeld classified Leviathan as the demon of envy, as one of the seven Princes of Hell corresponding to the seven deadly sins. Leviathan became associated with, and may originally have been referred to by, the visual motif of the Hellmouth, a monstrous animal into whose mouth the damned disappear at the Last Judgment, found in Anglo-Saxon art from about 800, and later all over Europe. The Revised Standard Version of the Bible suggests in a footnote to Job 41:1 that Leviathan may be a name for the crocodile, and in a footnote to Job 40:15, that Behemoth may be a name for the hippopotamus.
Leviathan : Anton LaVey in The Satanic Bible (1969) has Leviathan representing the element of Water and the direction of west, listing it as one of the Four Crown Princes of Hell. This association was inspired by the demonic hierarchy from The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the Mage. The Church of Satan uses the Hebrew letters at each of the points of the Sigil of Baphomet to represent Leviathan. Starting from the lowest point of the pentagram, and reading counter-clockwise, the word reads "לויתן": (Nun, Tav, Yod, Vav, Lamed) Hebrew for "Leviathan".
Leviathan : The Church Father Origen accused a Gnostic sect of venerating the biblical serpent of the Garden of Eden. Therefore, he calls them Ophites, naming after the serpent they are supposed to worship. In this belief system, the Leviathan appears as an Ouroboros, separating the divine realm from humanity by enveloping or permeating the material world. It is unknown whether or not the Ophites actually identified the serpent of the Garden of Eden with the Leviathan. However, since the Leviathan is basically connoted negatively in this Gnostic cosmology, if they identified him with the serpent of the Book of Genesis, he was probably indeed considered evil and just its advice was good. According to the cosmology of this Gnostic sect, the world is encapsulated by the Leviathan, in form of a dragon-shaped archon, biting its own tail (ouroboros). Generating the intrinsic evil in the entire universe, the Leviathan separates the lower world, governed by the Archons, from the realm of God. After death, a soul must pass through the seven spheres of the heavens. If the soul does not succeed, it will be swallowed by the Leviathan, who holds the world captive and returns the soul into an animal body. In Mandaeism, Leviathan is regarded as being coessential with a demon called Ur. In Manichaeism, an ancient religion influenced by Gnostic ideas, the Leviathan is killed by the sons of the fallen angel Shemyaza. This act is not portrayed as heroic, but as foolish, symbolizing the greatest triumphs as transient, since both are killed by archangels in turn after boasting about their victory. This reflects Manichaean criticism on royal power and advocates asceticism.
Leviathan : The word Leviathan has come to refer to any sea monster, and from the early 17th century has also been used to refer to overwhelmingly powerful people or things (comparable to Behemoth, also a biblical term), influentially so by Hobbes' book (1651). As a term for sea monster, it has also been used of great whales in particular, e.g. in Herman Melville's Moby-Dick - Although in the first Hebrew translation of the novel, translator Elyahu Burtinker chose to translate "Whale" to "Tanin" (intending to refer to another sea monster although in Modern Hebrew usage Tanin more commonly translates to "crocodile"), and leave the word "Leviathan" as it is, nodding to the ambiguity of the word "לויתן" in modern Hebrew – in which the word now simply means "whale". An extinct genus of sperm whales bears the name Livyatan. A major cryovolcanic feature on Neptune's largest moon Triton has been named Leviathan Patera.
Leviathan : Aspidochelone Bahamut (This name is thought to derive from the biblical Behemoth.) Bakunawa Book of Job in Byzantine illuminated manuscripts Cetus (mythology) Devil Whale Falak (Arabian legend) Ikuchi Ladon (mythology) Gaasyendietha Nyami Nyami Imugi Sisiutl Ouroboros Rahab (term) Jörmungandr
Leviathan : Heider, George C. (1999). "Tannîn". Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible (2nd ed.). Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. pp. 834–836. ISBN 9780802824912. Herrmann, Wolfgang (1999). "Baal". Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible (2nd ed.). Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. pp. 132–139. ISBN 9780802824912. Uehlinger, C. (1999). "Leviathan". Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible (2nd ed.). Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. pp. 511–515. ISBN 9780802824912.
Leviathan : Putting God on Trial – The Biblical Book of Job contains a major section on the literary use of Leviathan. Job 41:1–41:34 (KJV) The fossilised skull of a colossal "sea monster" has been unearthed along the UK's Jurassic Coast. 27 October 2009 'Sea monster' whale fossil unearthed 30 June 2010 Enuma Elish (Babylonian creation epic) Philologos concordance page
Morgawr (folklore) : In Cornish folklore, the Morgawr (meaning sea giant in Cornish) is a sea serpent that purportedly inhabits the sea near Falmouth Bay, Cornwall, England.
Morgawr (folklore) : According to legend, the creature first appeared near Pendennis Point in 1975, described as having a trunk with a very long neck and black or brown skin "like a sea lion's". Local mackerel fishermen blamed bad weather and poor fishing on supposed sightings of the monster. Some versions of the story say the monster appeared after German submarine U28 torpedoed a British merchant ship during World War I, and describe it as 60 feet long, shaped like a crocodile with four webbed feet and a powerful tail. Folklorists speculate that Cornish author Tony 'Doc' Shiels "invented" the creature as a hoax, having coined the name "Morgawr" after claiming to sight it in 1976. According to the story, Shiels sent the Falmouth Packet newspaper photographs of the monster attributed to an anonymous individual called "Mary F". The same year in July, fishermen John Cock and George Vinnicombe claimed to have sighted the creature in the waters off Lizard Point. Also in 1976, Shiels claimed to have photographed the creature lying low in the water near Mawnan. According to some anecdotes, British writer Sheila Bird claimed to have seen the monster while walking the cliffs of Gerrans Bay in 1985. The legend continues to the present day with sporadic claims of Morgawr sightings on the stretch of coastline between Rosemullion Head and Toll Point popularly known as "Morgawr's Mile".
Morgawr (folklore) : The Morgow Rises! is a horror novel by Cornish author Peter Tremayne featuring a sea serpent named "The Morgow". A serpent named "Morgawrus" appearing in A Warlock in Whitby by Robin Jarvis was reportedly inspired by the legend. A race of cancerous and mutated sea-serpent men called the Morgawr are a playable faction in the 4X strategy game Endless Legend. A three part reel in D Mixolydian called Morgawr written by Simon Owen of Llanelli and Oxford, played by the band Pencerdd .
Morgawr (folklore) : The Falmouth-made reproduction of the Ferriby Boats was named Morgawr after the legendary beast.
Morgawr (folklore) : Owlman Beast of Bodmin == References ==
Oilliphéist : The Oilliphéist (Irish: ollphéist, from Irish oll 'great' and péist 'worm, fabulous beast, monster, reptile') is a sea serpent or dragon-like monster in Irish mythology and folklore. These monsters were believed to inhabit many lakes and rivers in Ireland and there are many legends of saints and heroes fighting them. In one story, an Oilliphéist cuts the route of the River Shannon when it hears that Saint Patrick has come to drive out it and its kind. In a comic addition to the story, the monster swallows a drunken piper named Ó Ruairc (O'Rourke). The piper is either unaware of his predicament or is completely unperturbed and continues to play inside the Oilliphéist's stomach. The monster becomes so annoyed with Ó Ruairc's music that it coughs him up and spits him out. It is believed by Chris Cairney that this story and one involving Caoránach helped influence and inspire the legend of the Loch Ness Monster. Other stories of the Oilliphéist exist. One has a girl named Sionnan, grand daughter of Manannán mac Lir, anger the Salmon of Knowledge by throwing stones at it. In revenge the fish summons and asks an Oilliphéist to attack the girl which it does and ultimately ends up killing her.
Oilliphéist : In Irish folklore, Caoránach (sometimes Caol) was an Oilliphéist and said to be the mother of demons who was banished by Saint Patrick to Lough Dearg in Donegal, Ulster. According to earlier legend, Fionn mac Cumhaill and the Fianna were asked to slay a Hag in the Lough Dearg region. She was struck by an arrow from a large distance and as such her body was lost. Eventually the Fianna happened upon her body and were warned to not break the thigh bone as it would release a dangerous monster. One person named Conan broke the bone and released a small hairy worm. This worm quickly grew into a large sea monster named Caoránach that began to eat the cattle in the land. After almost all the cattle in Ulster were eaten the locals blamed Conan for the trouble, enraged he entered the monsters mouth with a sword and killed it. Lough Dearg is named after the blood that came out of Caoránach dyes the rocks red. In a more Christianised version of the story, Saint Patrick arrives to the area and is told about the monster's existence. He arrived at the region and continued to argue with the beast before slaying it himself. Its blood dyed the lake red and in some tales Saint Patrick then declared the lake should be called Lough Derg from then on. In some variants of the tale Saint Patrick failed at this and the monster lives in Lough Derg to this day.
Oilliphéist : Muirdris Each-uisge
Oilliphéist : O'Nolan, Kevin, ed. (1982). Eochair, a king's son in Ireland (in Irish). Comhairle Bhéaloideas Éireann, University College. ISBN 978-0-906426-08-1. 竹原威滋; 丸山顯徳, eds. (1998). 世界の龍の話 [Story of the dragon of the world] (in Japanese). 三弥井書店. ISBN 978-4-8382-9043-7.
Seelkee : In Canadian folklore, Seelkee (transcribed in English from Halqemeylem, the local indigenous language) is a lake monster reported to have lived in the swamps of what is now Chilliwack, in British Columbia, Canada. Seelkee has been allegedly seen by the Stó:lō, First Nations, people for hundreds of years. The most common description of Seelkee is a 10 to 15-foot-long (3.0 to 4.6 m) sea serpent like beast with the head of a horse. Most descriptions talk about how the creature was snake-like with two heads. Mostly black the serpent had red circular designs. The primary summer shelters for the Stó:lō people was in the form of a longhouse. Although some modern longhouses were built with gabled roofs, most Stó:lō longhouses were built with a single flat, but slanted roof, similar to the Xá:ytem Longhouse. Entire extended families would live in a longhouse, and the structure could be extended as the family expanded. Some of the longhouses in the local Stó:lō villages were defined by large house posts with Seelkee designs accented with red paint. One of the first Caucasian settlers of the region, Issac Kipp, reportly saw a Seelkee and spoke how he was told by the local Sto:lo people never to turn your back on the beast. Saying "Don't turn around, if you do you'll be sick."
Seelkee : Igopogo, said to live in Lake Simcoe, Ontario Loch Ness Monster Ogopogo, said to live in Okanagan Lake, BC Memphre, said to live in Lake Memphremagog, Quebec List of reported lake monsters Selkie, a similar named creature
Seelkee : Notes References Carlson, Keith; McHalsie, Albert Jules (2001). A Stó:lō-Coast Salish Historical Atlas. Vancouver, Seattle, Chilliwack: Douglas & McIntyre. ISBN 9781550548129. OCLC 44940929. - Total pages: 208 Eberhart, George M. (2002). Mysterious Creatures: N-Z. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 9781576072837. - Total pages: 722 Wells, Oliver N.; Maud, Ralph; Galloway, Brent Douglas; Weeden, Marie (1987). The Chilliwacks and Their Neighbors. Vancouver: Talonbooks. ISBN 9780889222557. OCLC 18907171. - Total pages: 226 Wells, Oliver (1970). Myths and Legends: STAW-loh Indians of South Western British Columbia. Mrs. R. P. Weeden. - Total pages: 42
Selma (lake monster) : In Norwegian folklore, Selma is a legendary sea serpent said to live in the 13-kilometre-long (8-mile) Lake Seljord (Seljordsvatnet) in Seljord, Telemark, Norway. The sea serpent Selma has been depicted in the coat of arms of Seljord since 1989. Designed by sculpturer, Trygve Magnus Barstad, the arms show Selma in a gold-color on a red background. The sea serpent has been discussed for a long time and there have been witness descriptions of encounters, especially on hot, quiet summers. The oldest written account of the creature dates from 1750, when it was said to have rounded a rowboat belonging to a man from Bø rowing across from Ulvenes to Nes.
Selma (lake monster) : Article from Aftenposten TV2 (Norwegian, 2012)
Serpent d'océan : Serpent d'océan (lit. "Serpent of the Ocean" in French) is a work by artist Huang Yong Ping. Depicting a long sea serpent skeleton, it is installed in the intertidal zone at Saint-Brevin-les-Pins, Loire-Atlantique, France and was inaugurated on June 20, 2012.
Serpent d'océan : Serpent d'océan is a monumental sculpture made of aluminum, 130 m long in total. It represents the skeleton of an immense imaginary sea serpent, whose vertebrae undulate to end in an open mouth. The work is installed at the tip of the Nez-de-Chien, in Mindin, in the territory of the commune of Saint-Brevin-les-Pins in the French département of Loire-Atlantique, at the limit where the Loire estuary joins the Atlantic Ocean. It spreads out over the foreshore area: the serpent's tail is located at the low tide limit, its head at the high tide limit. The sculpture is therefore covered and uncovered at each tide: at low tide it is possible to walk around it, but only the head and the top of the vertebrae stick out at high tide. It is intended to be gradually invaded by vegetation and marine fauna. The shape of the snake joins that of the Saint-Nazaire bridge, visible nearby; that of the vertebrae echoes the nearby carrelets (lift nets).
Serpent d'océan : The work was produced as part of the 2012 edition of the Estuaire festival and co-financed by the European Union through the European Regional Development Fund. It was inaugurated on June 20, 2012.
Serpent d'océan : Huang Yong Ping was a contemporary artist and was a prominent member of the 1980s Chinese avant-garde movement. Born in 1954 in Xiamen, China, he lived in France from 1989, where he died in 2019. He favored the connection of heterogeneous meanings and often addressed the notions of mixing identity and culture. The sculpture is a play on the symbolism of a snake in Western versus Eastern culture. In 2016, Yong Ping made an even larger serpent measuring 240 metres (790 ft) as part of the Monumenta series at the Grand Palais in Paris.
Serpent d'océan : Architectural sculpture == References ==
Sharlie : In Idaho folklore, Sharlie (Slimy Slim, The Twilight Dragon of Payette Lake) is the name given to a sea serpent much like the Loch Ness Monster that is believed by some to live in the deep alpine waters of Payette Lake near McCall, Idaho. The first reference to the sea serpent may be the belief of Native Americans, predating western settlement of the area, that an evil spirit dwelled in the lake.
Sharlie : The first documented sighting by western settlers occurred in 1920 when workers cutting ties at the upper end of the lake thought they saw a log in the lake. The “log” began to move. In August 1944 the serpent was reportedly seen by several groups of people who described it as 30 to 35 feet in length, with a dinosaur-type head and pronounced jaws, humps like a camel, and shell-like skin. In September 1946 the serpent was reportedly sighted by a group of twenty people. Dr. G.A. Taylor of Nampa, Idaho explained that “it appeared to be between 30 and 40 feet long and seemed to keep diving into the water. It left a wake about like a small motor boat would make.” In 1954 A. Boone McCallum, Editor of The Star News held a contest to name the serpent of Payette Lake. The winning name, “Sharlie”, was submitted by Le Isle Hennefer Tury of Springfield, Virginia. In her letter to Mr. McCallum she said, “Why don’t you call the thing Sharlie? You know – ‘Vas you der, Sharlie?” This was a reference to the popular catch phrase often spoken by Jack Pearl during his old time radio show. Sharlie was reportedly sighted dozens of times between 1956 and the last documented sighting in 1997. == Notes ==
Stoor worm : The stoor worm, or Mester Stoor Worm, was a gigantic evil sea serpent of Orcadian folklore, capable of contaminating plants and destroying animals and humans with its putrid breath. It is probably an Orkney variant of the Norse Jörmungandr, also known as the Midgard Serpent, or world serpent, and has been described as a sea dragon. The king of one country threatened by the beast's arrival was advised to offer it a weekly sacrifice of seven virgins. In desperation, the king eventually issued a proclamation offering his kingdom, his daughter's hand in marriage, and a magic sword to anyone who could destroy the monster. Assipattle, the youngest son of a local farmer, defeated the creature; as it died its teeth fell out to become the islands of Orkney, Shetland and the Faroes, and its body became Iceland. Similarities between Assipatle's defeat of the monster and other dragon-slayer tales, including Herakles' destruction of a sea monster to save Hesione, have been noted by several authors. It has been suggested that tales of this genre evolved during a period of enlightenment when human sacrifices to bestial divinities were beginning to be suppressed.
Stoor worm : The name stoor worm may be derived from the Old Norse Storðar-gandr, an alternative name for Jörmungandr, the world or Midgard Serpent of Norse mythology, Stoor or stour was a term used by Scots in the latter part of the 14th century to describe fighting or battles; it could also be applied to "violent conflicts" of the weather elements. Similar definitions are given by the Dictionary of the Older Scottish Tongue that covers the period up to the start of the 18th century; later volumes, when it was published as the Dictionary of the Scots Language and covered from 1700 onwards, include substantial, large and big; it further indicates it may be akin to the Old Norse stórr. It shows stoorworm as "a monster serpent, a sea-dragon" using Traill Dennison's tale as the basis for the definition. Mester means master; it may have been deemed Mester Stoor Worm because it was the "master and father of all stoorworms". In Scotland worm may frequently be applied to a dragon, as it is in northern England according to folklorist Katharine Briggs, a usage that derives from the Saxon and Norse terms. The spelling of the Old English and obsolete variant of the word worm is wyrm, meaning dragon or serpent. Traill Dennison's definition gives mester as "superior" with stoor being "large, powerful, strong or stern". He describes worm as "any animal of serpent shape".
Stoor worm : The stoor worm is likely to be an Orkney variant of the Norse Jörmungandr, or world serpent, also known as the Midgard Serpent. The Orcadian folklorist Marwick highlights the similarity between the method Assipattle used to kill the mythical creature and those recounted in the slaying of the Worm of Linton and the Cnoc na Cnoimh of Sutherland tales. He also notes that in Bel and the Dragon, the dragon is killed by Daniel using "fat and hair" instead of peat. In Shetland there was a long-standing belief that "away, far out to sea, near the edge of the world, lived a monstrous sea-serpent that took about six hours to draw in his breath, and six hours to let it out", which Marwick speculates was probably an explanation for the cycle of the tides. Hartland published an analysis of the myths of the Perseus cycle in the last decade of the 19th century with the stated aim to determine "whether it be possible to ascertain what was its primitive form, where it originated, and how it became diffused over the Eastern continent." He highlighted similarities between Assipattle's defeat of the stoor worm and Herakle's rescue of Hesione. When researching the Dartmoor legend of Childe's Tomb folklorist Theo Brown also drew comparisons between the slaying of the stoor worm and Jonah's three-day confinement inside a whale. Hartland concluded that tales of this genre were confined to countries beginning to move away from primitive beliefs and possibly evolved "out of the suppression of human sacrifices to divinities in bestial form."
Stronsay Beast : The Stronsay Beast was a large globster (unidentified organism) that washed ashore on the island of Stronsay (at the time spelled Stronsa), in the Orkney Islands, Scotland, after a storm on 25 September 1808. The carcass was measured as 55 ft (16.8 m) in length, without part of its tail. The Natural History Society (Wernerian Society) of Edinburgh could not identify the carcass and decided it was a new species, probably a sea serpent. The Scottish naturalist Patrick Neill gave it the scientific name Halsydrus pontoppidani (Pontoppidan's sea-snake) in honor of Erik Pontoppidan, who described sea serpents in a work published half a century previously. The anatomist Sir Everard Home in London later dismissed the measurement, declaring it must have been about 30 ft (9 m), and deemed it to be a decayed basking shark. In 1849, Scottish professor John Goodsir in Edinburgh made the same conclusion. The Beast of Stronsay was measured by a carpenter and two farmers. It was 4 ft (1.2 m) wide and had a circumference of about 10 ft (3.1 m). It had three pairs of appendages described as 'paws' or 'wings'. Its skin was smooth when stroked head to tail and rough when stroked tail to head. Its fins were edged with bristles and it had a row of bristles down its back, which glowed in the dark when wet. Its stomach contents were red.
Stronsay Beast : Zuiyo-maru carcass
Stronsay Beast : DNA could help identify 200 year old Stronsay Beast
Tiamat : In Mesopotamian religion, Tiamat (Akkadian: 𒀭𒋾𒊩𒆳 DTI.AMAT or 𒀭𒌓𒌈 DTAM.TUM, Ancient Greek: Θαλάττη, romanized: Thaláttē) is the primordial sea, mating with Abzû (Apsu), the groundwater, to produce the gods in the Babylonian epic Enûma Elish, which translates as "when on high." She is referred to as a woman, and has—at various points in the epic— a number of anthropomorphic features (such as breasts) and theriomorphic features (such as a tail). In the Enûma Elish, the Babylonian epic of creation, Tiamat bears the first generation of deities after mingling her waters with those of Apsu, her consort. The gods continue to reproduce, forming a noisy new mass of divine children. Apsu, driven to violence by the noise they make, seeks to destroy them and is killed. Enraged, Tiamat also wars upon those of her own and Apsu's children who killed her consort, bringing forth a series of monsters as weapons. She also takes a new consort, Qingu, and bestows on him the Tablet of Destinies, which represents legitimate divine rulership. She is ultimately defeated and slain by Enki's son, the storm-god Marduk, but not before she conjures forth monsters whose bodies she fills with "poison instead of blood." Marduk dismembers her, and then constructs and structures elements of the cosmos from Tiamat’s body. Some sources have dubiously identified her with images of a sea serpent or dragon.
Tiamat : Thorkild Jacobsen and Walter Burkert both argue for a connection with the Akkadian word for sea, tâmtu (𒀀𒀊𒁀), following an early form, ti'amtum. Burkert continues by making a linguistic connection to Tethys. The later form Θαλάττη, thaláttē, which appears in the Hellenistic Babylonian writer Berossus' first volume of universal history, is clearly related to Greek Θάλαττα, thálatta, an Eastern variant of Θάλασσα, thalassa, 'sea'. It is thought that the proper name ti'amat, which is the vocative or construct form, was dropped in secondary translations of the original texts, because some Akkadian copyists of Enuma Elish substituted the ordinary word tāmtu ('sea') for Tiamat, the two names having become essentially the same due to association. Tiamat also has been claimed to be cognate with the Northwest Semitic word tehom (תְּהוֹם; 'the deeps, abyss'), in the Book of Genesis 1:2. The Babylonian epic Enuma Elish is named for its incipit: "When on high [or: When above]," the heavens did not yet exist nor the earth below, Abzu the subterranean ocean was there, "the first, the begetter", and Tiamat, the overground sea, "she who bore them all"; they were "mixing their waters". It is thought that female deities are older than male ones in Mesopotamia, and Tiamat may have begun as part of the cult of Nammu, a female principle of a watery creative force, with equally strong connections to the underworld, which predates the appearance of Ea-Enki. Harriet Crawford finds this "mixing of the waters" to be a natural feature of the middle Persian Gulf, where fresh waters from the Arabian aquifer mix and mingle with the salt waters of the sea. This characteristic is especially true of the region of Bahrain, whose name in Arabic means "two seas", and which is thought to be the site of Dilmun, the original site of the Sumerian creation beliefs. The difference in density of salt and fresh water drives a perceptible separation.
Tiamat : In the Enuma Elish, Tiamat’s physical description includes a tail, a thigh, "lower parts" (which shake together), a belly, an udder, ribs, a neck, a head, a skull, eyes, nostrils, a mouth, and lips. She has insides (possibly "entrails"), a heart, arteries, and blood. Tiamat was once regarded as a sea serpent or dragon, although Assyriologist Alexander Heidel has previously recognized that a "dragon form can not be imputed to Tiamat with certainty." She is still often referred to as a monster, though this identification has been credibly challenged. In Enuma Elish, Tiamat is clearly portrayed as a mother of monsters but, before this, she is just as clearly portrayed as a mother to all the gods.
Tiamat : With Tiamat, Abzu (or Apsû) fathered the elder deities Lahmu and Lahamu (masc. the 'hairy'), a title given to the gatekeepers at Enki's Abzu/E'engurra-temple in Eridu. Lahmu and Lahamu, in turn, were the parents of the 'ends' of the heavens (Anshar, from an-šar, 'heaven-totality/end') and the earth (Kishar); Anshar and Kishar were considered to meet at the horizon, becoming, thereby, the parents of Anu (Heaven) and Ki (Earth). Tiamat was the "shining" personification of the sea who roared and smote in the chaos of original creation. She and Abzu filled the cosmic abyss with the primeval waters. She is "Ummu-Hubur who formed all things." In the myth recorded on cuneiform tablets, the deity Enki (later Ea) believed correctly that Abzu was planning to murder the younger deities as a consequence of his aggravation with the noisy tumult they created. This premonition led Enki to capture Abzu and hold him prisoner beneath Abzu’s own temple, the E-Abzu ('temple of Abzu'). This angered Kingu, their son, who reported the event to Tiamat, whereupon she fashioned eleven monsters to battle the deities in order to avenge Abzu's death. These were her own offspring: Bašmu ('Venomous Snake'), Ušumgallu ('Great Dragon'), Mušmaḫḫū ('Exalted Serpent'), Mušḫuššu ('Furious Snake'), Laḫmu (the 'Hairy One'), Ugallu (the 'Big Weather-Beast'), Uridimmu ('Mad Lion'), Girtablullû ('Scorpion-Man'), Umū dabrūtu ('Violent Storms'), Kulullû ('Fish-Man'), and Kusarikku ('Bull-Man'). Tiamat was in possession of the Tablet of Destinies, and in the primordial battle, she gave the relic to Kingu, the deity she had chosen as her lover and the leader of her host, and who was also one of her children. The terrified deities were rescued by Anu, who secured their promise to revere him as "king of the gods." He fought Tiamat with the arrows of the winds, a net, a club, and an invincible spear. Anu was later replaced first by Enlil, and (in the late version that has survived after the First Dynasty of Babylon) then subsequently by Marduk, the son of Ea. Slicing Tiamat in half, Marduk made from her ribs the vault of heaven and earth. Her weeping eyes became the sources of the Tigris and the Euphrates, her tail became the Milky Way. With the approval of the elder deities, he took the Tablet of Destinies from Kingu, and installed himself as the head of the Babylonian pantheon. Kingu was captured and later was slain: his red blood mixed with the red clay of the Earth would make the body of humankind, created to act as the servant of the younger Igigi deities. The principal theme of the epic is the rightful elevation of Marduk to command over all the deities. “It has long been realized that the Marduk epic, for all its local coloring and probable elaboration by the Babylonian theologians, reflects in substance older Sumerian material,” American Assyriologist E. A. Speiser remarked in 1942, adding, “The exact Sumerian prototype, however, has not turned up so far.” However, this surmise that the Babylonian version of the story is based upon a modified version of an older epic, in which Enlil, not Marduk, was the god who slew Tiamat, has been more recently dismissed as "distinctly improbable."
Tiamat : One example of an icon that was more so a motif of Tiamat was within the Temple of Bêl, located in Palmyra. The motif depicts Nabu and Marduk defeating Tiamat. In this picture, Tiamat is shown as a woman's body with legs which are made of snakes.
Tiamat : It was once thought that the myth of Tiamat was one of the earliest recorded versions of a Chaoskampf, a mythological motif that generally involves the battle between a culture hero and a chthonic or aquatic monster, serpent, or dragon. Chaoskampf motifs in other mythologies perhaps linked to the Tiamat myth include: the Hittite Illuyanka myth; the Greek lore of Apollo's killing of the Python as a necessary action to take over the Delphic Oracle; and to Genesis in the Hebrew Bible. A number of writers have put forth ideas about Tiamat: Robert Graves, for example, considered Tiamat's death by Marduk as evidence for his hypothesis of an ancient shift in power from a matriarchal society to a patriarchy. The theory suggested that Tiamat and other ancient monster figures were depictions of former supreme deities of peaceful, woman-centered religions. Their defeat at the hands of a male hero corresponded to the overthrow of these matristic religions and societies by male-dominated ones.
Tiamat : The depiction of Tiamat as a multi-headed dragon was popularized in the 1970s as a fixture of Dungeons & Dragons, a role-playing game inspired by earlier sources that associated Tiamat with later mythological characters, such as Lotan (Leviathan). In the Monsterverse, an unseen monster is designated as "Titanus Tiamat" in Godzilla: King of the Monsters. Tiamat fully appears as an aquatic serpentine dragon in the Godzilla vs Kong prequel graphic novel Godzilla Dominion before making her live action debut in Godzilla x Kong: The New Empire. She served as a minor antagonist in both, conflicting with Godzilla over territory.
Tiamat : Nu (mythology) – an ancient Egyptian deity with a similar role Chaos (cosmogony) – Ancient Greek deity with a similar role Ymir (Norse) Pangu (Chinese) Sea of Suf – a primordial sea in the World of Darkness in Mandaean cosmology
Tiamat : Enuma Elish Enuma Elish, the Babylonian creation story
Zuiyo-maru carcass : The Zuiyo-maru carcass (ニューネッシー, Nyū Nesshii, literally "New Nessie") was a corpse, caught by the Japanese fishing trawler Zuiyō Maru (瑞洋丸) off the coast of New Zealand in 1977. The carcass's peculiar appearance resulted in speculation that it might be the remains of a sea serpent or prehistoric plesiosaur. Although several scientists insisted it was "not a fish, whale, or any other mammal", analysis of amino acids in the corpse's muscle tissue later indicated it was most likely the carcass of a basking shark. Decomposing basking shark carcasses lose most of the lower head area and the dorsal and caudal fins first, making them resemble a plesiosaur.
Zuiyo-maru carcass : On April 25, 1977, the Japanese trawler Zuiyō Maru, fishing east of Christchurch, New Zealand, caught a strange, unknown creature in the trawl. The crew was convinced it was an unidentified animal, but despite the potential biological significance of the curious discovery, the captain, Akira Tanaka, decided to dump the carcass into the ocean again so not to risk spoiling the fish caught. However, before that was done, some photos and sketches were taken of the creature, nicknamed "Nessie" by the crew, measurements were taken and some samples of skeleton, skin and fins were collected for further analysis by experts in Japan (later the shipping company ordered all its boats to try to relocate the dumped corpse, but without apparent success).The discovery resulted in immense commotion and a "plesiosaur-craze" in Japan.
Zuiyo-maru carcass : The foul-smelling, decomposing corpse reportedly weighed 1,800 kg and was about 10 m long. According to the crew, the creature had a 1.5-m-long neck, four large, reddish fins, and a tail about 2.0 m long. It seemed to lack a dorsal fin on inspection, but one was visible from photographs. No internal organs remained as the chest cavity and gut had opened from decay, but flesh and fat were somewhat intact.
Zuiyo-maru carcass : Despite multiple investigations concluding that the carcass pulled up by the Zuiyo-maru was probably the remains of a large shark, most appearances in popular fiction either neglect to state this fact and instead either leave the identity ambiguous, or ignore it in favor of declaring the remains that of a genuine plesiosaur. The creature is referenced in the 1991 movie Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah, but acknowledged as a plesiosaur in support for the idea that Godzilla could have been a dinosaur species which survived into modern times before being irradiated into the monster it became known as. An unused opening for The Lost World: Jurassic Park was to feature a Japanese fishing boat accidentally hauling up the badly decomposed remains of a Parasaurolophus, revealing that genetically engineered dinosaurs continued to survive past the end of Jurassic Park. The scene was inspired by the Zuiyo-maru incident. In the 1998 OVA movie Tekken: The Motion Picture, the decomposing corpse of a genetically engineered Deinonychus is caught in a fishing boat's net, alerting Interpol to genetic experiments occurring on a remote island. The imagery is done as a homage to the Zuiyo-maru incident. The carcass is also mentioned in the credits of the 2014 movie Godzilla. The plesiosaur argument is used as the basis of the television series Lost Tapes' episode "Monster of Monterey", in which a similar creature lives in the Monterey Canyon off the coast of California and is suggested as being responsible for a number of deaths. In the 2005 movie documentary, Monsters of the Deep, moviemaker Bryan Bruce explores the myth and reality of the stories of huge sea creatures, including that of the Zuiyo-maru.
Zuiyo-maru carcass : Basking shark Globster Stronsay beast == References ==
List of dragons in popular culture : This is a list of dragons in popular culture. Dragons in some form are nearly universal across cultures and as such have become a staple of modern popular culture, especially in the fantasy genre.
List of dragons in popular culture : This list of dragons in fiction is a list of draconic characters that appear in various works of fiction. It is limited to well-referenced examples of dragons in literature, comics, film, television, animation and video games.
List of dragons in popular culture : List of dragons in mythology and folklore Chinese dragon, the Eastern interpretation of the dragon European dragon, the Western interpretation of the dragon Dragon Day, a celebration at Cornell University Princess and dragon, the archetypical/stereotypical premise about dragons kidnapping princesses == References ==
List of dragons in film and television : This is a list of dragons in film and television. The dragons are organized by either film or television and further by whether the media is animation or live-action. They are sorted alphabetically by name or if there is none, by the name of the media. Further information is the title of the media, the type of dragon, whether it transforms to/from something else, the voice actor if it has one and additional notes. Dragon Types: European: 4 legged and winged. Common in films involving dragons being slain or ridden. Drake: 4 legged, not winged, and commonly possessing a short body. Frequent in 20th century animation when wing animation was difficult for the artists. Asian: 4 legged, not winged, and possessing a long body. Often found in anime, western animation and films with East Asian themes. Wyvern: 2 legged, winged. Common in films involving dragons being slain. Their popularity increased in the 21st century with the rise of live action CGI but the difficulty in animating classical 6 limbed European dragons remained Serpentine: has no legs or wings and frequently appearing in animation as a lake monster Amphithere: has no legs but possesses wings. These are uncommon Alien: Dragons with unusual alien physical appearance. These appear in Sci-Fi films Other: The Dragon has a shape not conforming to any of the above categorizations
List of dragons in film and television : Appearance lists when the dragon appears
List of dragons in film and television : List of dragons in games List of dragons in literature List of dragons in popular culture List of dragons in mythology and folklore
List of dragons in literature : This is a list of dragons in literature. For fictional dragons in other media, see the list of dragons in popular culture. For dragons from legends and mythology, see the list of dragons in mythology and folklore.
List of dragons in literature : By publication date of first installment in a series.
List of dragons in literature : Arranged by publication date of the first installment in a series.
Amoryus and Cleopes : Amoryus and Cleopes is a poem written in 1449 by John Metham; it was an early English adaptation of the Pyramus and Thisbe narrative from Book 4 of Ovid‘s Metamorphoses.
Amoryus and Cleopes : John Metham was very probably one of the sons of Sir Thomas Metham, who had held the position of High Sheriff of Yorkshire in 1442 and 1459. Metham’s patrons, mentioned toward the end of the text, were Sir Miles Stapleton (d. 1466), an important nobleman in Norfolk during the middle part of the fifteenth century, and his wife, Katherine de la Pole, daughter of Sir Thomas de la Pole, uncle of William, Duke of Suffolk, oldest son of Michael de la Pole, the Earl of Suffolk.
Amoryus and Cleopes : The story of Amoryus and Cleopes begins after the Roman emperor Nero has conquered the realms of Persia and Media. Two Roman magistrates, Palamedon (Amoryus’s father) and Dydas (Cleopes’s father) are awarded control of the two realms. Before the background of prophecies and signs that foreshadow the downfall of the Roman gods in the realms, Amoryus and Cleopes meet and fall in love. In true chivalric romance fashion, Amoryus proves his worthiness by defeating a discourteous knight and a dangerous dragon (the latter with Cleopes’s help). Because their parents are opposed to their relationship, the two lovers have to meet secretly outside the city walls. Cleopes arrives first at the appointed place, but a lion forces her to hide and drop her scarf. The lion wipes its bloody maw on the scarf, then walks away. Amoryus, who finds the scarf, believes Cleopes has been killed by the lion, and commits suicide. Cleopes then finds Amoryus dead and commits suicide in turn. In a surprising Christian ending, the two lovers are resurrected by holy hermit. The hermit and the resurrected lovers return to the city, convince all citizens to convert to Christianity, and Amoryus and Cleopes are married according to Christian rite.
Amoryus and Cleopes : For most of its plot, the poem is heavily indebted to Book 4 of the Metamorphoses of the Roman author Ovid (43 B.C.-A.D.18). However, Metham not only substitutes the names of Ovid's lovers (Pyramus and Thisbe), but Christianizes the entire story by adding a somewhat surprising salvific ending. For its style, language, and role of the narrator, Metham depends heavily on the fourteenth-century poet Geoffrey Chaucer, especially his poem Troilus and Criseyde.
Amoryus and Cleopes : Amoryus and Cleopes survives in a single manuscript, Princeton University Library, MS Garrett 141, fols. 17b-56b., which was first edited by Hardin Craig in 1916. In 1999, Stephen F. Page produced a student-friendly edition for the TEAMS series published by Western Michigan University’s Medieval Institute.
Amoryus and Cleopes : Roger Dalrymple, "Amoryus and Cleopes: John Metham's Metamorphosis of Chaucer and Ovid', in The Matter of Identity in Medieval Romance, ed. P. Hardman (Cambridge: DS Brewer, 2002), p.149-62. Jamie C. Fumo, "John Metham's 'Straunge Style': Amoryus and Cleopes as Chaucerian Fragment," Chaucer Review 43.2 (2008), 215-37. Vines, Amy N. "The Science of Female Power in John Metham's Amoryus and Cleopes," in Women's Power in Late Medieval Romance (New York: DS Brewer, 2011), 53-84.
Amoryus and Cleopes : Electronic edition of Stephen F. Page's 1999 text, with introduction, notes, and commentary.
Azfareo no Sobayōnin : Azfareo no Sobayōnin (蒼竜の側用人, Azufareo no Sobayōnin) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Shiki Chitose. It was initially published as a one-shot in Hakusensha's shōjo manga magazine Hana to Yume in October 2015. It was later serialized in the same magazine as a short serial from January 2016. It later was fully serialized in The Hana to Yume magazine from July 2016 to March 2018, before being transferred back to Hana to Yume in April 2018 and running up until August 2019.
Azfareo no Sobayōnin : The series, alongside This Man is the Biggest Mistake of My Life, won the Women's Comic Prize at NTT Solmare's "Minna ga Erabu!! Denshi Comic Taishō 2019" competition in 2019.
Azfareo no Sobayōnin : Official manga website (in Japanese) Azfareo no Sobayōnin (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Berserk (manga) : Berserk (Japanese: ベルセルク, Hepburn: Beruseruku) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Kentaro Miura. Set in a medieval Europe-inspired dark fantasy world, the story centers on the characters of Guts, a lone swordsman, and Griffith, the leader of a mercenary band called the "Band of the Hawk". The series follows Guts' journey seeking revenge on Griffith, who betrayed him and sacrificed his comrades to become a powerful demonic being. Miura premiered a prototype of Berserk in 1988. The series began the following year in Hakusensha's manga magazine Monthly Animal House, which was replaced in 1992 by the semimonthly magazine Young Animal, where Berserk has continued its publication. Following Miura's death in May 2021, the final chapter that he worked on was published posthumously in September of the same year; the series resumed in June 2022, under supervision of Miura's fellow manga artist and childhood friend Kouji Mori and Miura's group of assistants and apprentices from Studio Gaga. Berserk was adapted into a 25-episode anime television series by OLM, which covered the Golden Age story arc, and was broadcast from October 1997 to March 1998. The Golden Age arc was also adapted into a trilogy of theatrical anime films; the first two films premiered in 2012 and the third film premiered in 2013. A second 24-episode anime television series adaptation was broadcast for two seasons in 2016 and 2017. By September 2023, the Berserk manga had over 60 million copies in circulation, including digital versions, making it one of the best-selling manga series of all time. It received the Award for Excellence at the sixth installment of the Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize in 2002. Berserk has been widely acclaimed, particularly for its dark setting, storytelling, characters, and Miura's detailed artwork.
Berserk (manga) : Guts was born from the hanged corpse of his mother and raised as a mercenary by his abusive adoptive father, Gambino, following the death of his adoptive mother, Shisu. After being forced to kill Gambino in self-defense, Guts fled his mercenary group and became a wandering mercenary. His reckless yet powerful fighting style attracts the attention of Griffith, the leader of a mercenary group called the Band of the Hawk, which he makes Guts join after defeating him. The kingdom of Midland hires the Band to aid them in their war against the Chuder Empire, and Guts learns of Griffith's desire to rule his own kingdom and of the pendant he possesses, called the Behelit. After the demonic warrior Nosferatu Zodd spares them, he warns Guts that he will die for being Griffith's friend. As Griffith befriends Midland's nobility and the king's daughter, Charlotte, Guts begins to develop feelings for Casca, another Hawks commander and the only female member. After overhearing Griffith confess to Charlotte that he only considers someone with their own dream as a friend, Guts decides to leave the group to find his own dream, a decision that Griffith refuses unless Guts defeats him in a duel. When Guts wins, Griffith descends into a downward spiral that culminates in his arrest after he seduces Charlotte. He loses the Behelit while being subjected to torture, and the Midland army declares the Hawks to be outlaws. Soon after, a mysterious being known as the Skull Knight warns Guts that his actions have triggered an Eclipse and, after learning of the Hawks' predicament, he rejoins them to rescue Griffith. At this time, he and Casca consummate their feelings for each other. After rescuing Griffith, the Hawks learn that his torture has left him incapable of leading them. When Griffith regains his Behelit, it uses his blood to initiate the Eclipse, a convergence of the physical and astral realms. During the Eclipse, the Hawks encounter a quartet of archdemons known as the Godhand, who reveal that Griffith has been chosen as their fifth member and can only do so if he sacrifices his comrades, which he accepts. After being branded with sigils that mark them for sacrifice, the Hawks are slaughtered by the Godhand's Apostles—former humans turned demons who, like Zodd, gained power by sacrificing their loved ones—and only Guts and Casca survive. Griffith, who has become the fifth Godhand, Femto, rapes Casca, and Guts loses his left forearm and right eye while trying to save her; although the Skull Knight rescues them, the ordeal traumatizes Casca. After learning from the Skull Knight that the Brands of Sacrifice make them targets for beings of darkness, Guts leaves Casca in the care of the blacksmith Godo, his adoptive daughter Erica, and Rickert, the youngest member of the Band of the Hawk, who survived because he was not present at the Eclipse. After Godo gives Guts a new sword, Dragonslayer, and Rickert gives him a prosthetic left arm, Guts begins hunting the Apostles in search of the God Hand while being pursued by a demonic phantom, the Demon Child, which is in fact his and Casca's unborn child that became deformed after Femto raped her. Two years later, having killed many Apostles and becoming known as the Black Swordsman, Guts is joined by the elf Puck, and is captured by Farnese, the captain of the Holy See Church's Holy Iron Chain Knights, who believes that Guts is a harbinger of the apocalypse. Guts escapes after saving Farnese and returns home to Godo, where he learns that Casca has wandered off. His search for her takes him to the ruined city of St. Albion, which the God Hand have prepared as the site for a ceremony to give one of their own a physical form and which has become a refuge for refugees fleeing the invading Kushan Empire's armies. Guts saves Casca from the Holy See bishop Mozgus as the souls of the dead attack the city, creating a massive Brand of Sacrifice, and is joined by Farnese, her bodyguard Serpico, and the young thief Isidro. Meanwhile, an Apostle living under St. Albion consumes the Demon Child and uses its body to restore Griffith to physical form. After Guts fights Griffith and Zodd at Godo's home, Griffith realizes that some traces of the Demon Infant remain within him. Hoping to find a land safe from the demons and potentially heal Casca, Guts decides to travel with Casca to Puck's homeland of Elfhelm on the island of Skellig, allowing Isidro, Farnese, and Serpico to follow him out of fear that he will lose control of himself to his dark impulses, which are embodied as the Beast of Darkness within his mind, with Farnese becoming Casca's primary caretaker. Meanwhile, Griffith forms a second Band of the Hawk with Zodd and other Apostles to save Midland from the Kushan Empire, which is led by emperor Ganishka, a rogue Apostle. Guts' party encounters the witch Flora, her apprentice Schierke and the elf Ivalera while saving a village from trolls, and Flora gives him the Berserker Armor, which increases his power but risks pushing his body beyond its limits and being consumed by his inner darkness. Flora is later killed by Apostles, and after escaping, Guts' party encounters a mysterious being they dub the Moonlight Child, who expresses affection for Guts and Casca before disappearing after the full moon passes. Meanwhile, the Skull Knight warns Guts to not abuse the Berserker Armor's power while assuring him that Elfhelm's inhabitants can heal Casca's mind. While Guts and his party secure a ship called the "Seahorse", which is captained by Farnese's fiance, Prince Roderick, to reach Elfhelm in the wake of a Kushan attack on the port city in which Guts and Zodd briefly ally to fight Ganishka in his Apostle form, Ganishka transforms into an eldritch monstrosity and causes the physical and astral realms to merge after being slain by Griffith. With the blessing of Charlotte and the Holy See, Griffith establishes the city of Falconia to provide refuge for the Midlanders and humanity from the creatures that manifested after the realms merged. After recruiting a merrow girl named Isma, Guts' party reaches Elfhelm; its elf ruler, Danann, helps Farnese and Schierke in their magical training, and succeeds in restoring Casca's mind. The Skull Knight introduces Guts to the creator of the Berserker Armor and reveals his past with the Godhand and its leader, Void. The Moonlight Child later reappears; it is revealed that he is the Demon Child, who can take control of Griffith's host during a full moon. Griffith regains control of his host and abducts Casca while destroying the island's spirit tree, unleashing spirits that attack the island and cause Danann, Isma, and the other magical creatures (except for Puck and Ivalera) to disappear into the Astral Realm. As the survivors flee on the Seahorse, Guts breaks down in despair. Griffith returns to the mainland with Casca, imprisoning her in Falconia in a fugue until she remembers her companions and attempts to escape, only to lose consciousness upon recapture. Guts is taunted by visions of his inner darkness that urge him to give in, but he passes out as Kushan warriors invade the ship and are revealed to be under the command of Silat, the leader of the Bakiraka warrior clan who Guts had previously fought, and Daiba, a magician and former servant of Ganishka. Among the soldiers is Rickert, who had escaped from Falconia along with Erica and the Kushan deserters. The Kushan escort Guts and the rest of the party to their capital where Guts is imprisoned as a precaution. Daiba informs them that Falconia's army has appeared on the borders of the Kushan Empire and that the attack on Elfhelm is part of a wider campaign by Falconia to have Griffith rule the world. As such, Daiba orders that Guts and his party, Rodrick, the ships' crew, and Elfhelm's surviving sorcerers be placed under his command as the empire prepares for war with Falconia.
Berserk (manga) : Berserk explores a wide range of themes and topics. Free will, destiny, and causality are discussed within the series. Human resilience is a recurring theme, with many characters coming from traumatic backgrounds, constantly struggling against an unjust world. Guts struggles with destiny itself and is constantly resisting the pull of predetermination. Griffith also embodies this idea of resilience, by chasing his dream of ruling his own kingdom, despite his lowborn origins, as well as free will, by his own decision to sacrifice the Band of the Hawk in order to achieve his dream. The series also explores human nature and morality, as characters struggle between becoming good human beings or falling into madness and evil. Guts, at the beginning of the story, is presented as an antihero who does not care about killing and is indifferent to people who aid him. Guts does not act in accordance with definitions of right and wrong, he operates within a gray area. Initially he does not attempt to be heroic or protect the innocent, though his self-motivated actions sometimes do so incidentally. However, as the story progresses, it is shown that he is in fact a person who is deeply conflicted internally. His tragic and traumatic past, unfolded in the Golden Age arc, shows Guts as a more complex character. Anne Lauenroth of Anime News Network wrote that Griffith is "not evil at all," but "arrogant and brutally realistic about human nature." The suppression of his own human nature would initiate his demise as the Hawk and the rise of Femto. Friendship, comradery and human relations are other explored themes. As a child, Guts tried to build some level of friendship with his mercenary group, but due to his traumatic experience with them, he lost trust in people. However, through the time he was with Griffith and the rest of the Band of the Hawk, Guts formed bonds, friendships, animosities and co-dependencies, maturing as well as individual. Miura stated that he based the Band of the Hawk on his own high school friend relationship experience. Specifically, he mentioned that his friendship with later fellow manga artist Kouji Mori partially inspired the relationship between Guts and Griffith. Jacob Chapman of Anime News Network, wrote that through their friendship, Guts' ambitions were elevated and Griffith's were lowered, allowing both of them to consider a new future for the first time, one where they fight side by side as equals and die on the battlefield, but they reject this future out of their own personal fears, as Guts did not think he was "good enough" for a happy future and Griffith was terrified of his lofty dream crumbling into something more mundane. Miura also said that the conflict between Guts and Griffith speaks about their change after having built their personalities. The Golden Age arc has been compared to a Greek tragedy. According to Lauenroth, Griffith's hamartia lies in how he compartmentalizes his feelings of guilt and shame that would get in the way of his dream and how he deals to repress them. His inner dialogue in his second duel with Guts, "If I can't have him, I don't care," marks the Golden Age arc peripeteia. When Guts comes running to rescue him during the Eclipse, Griffith reaches his moment of anagnorisis with his thought: "You're the only one... who made me forget my dream." Betrayal and revenge are major themes in the series. Guts suffered his first betrayal when Gambino sold Guts' body to another soldier for a few coins. He would eventually take revenge against the soldier, killing him on the battlefield and he later would kill Gambino as well. Guts is in a quest for revenge after his comrades were betrayed by Griffith and sacrificed by the God Hand. This desire for vengeance has been his main reason of survival. Religion has been also touched in the series, mainly through the characters of Mozgus and Farnese. Miura stated that he created Mozgus based on the concept of rigid personality to create a religious fanatic character with no flexibility. Farnese is presented as the figurehead of the Holy Iron Chain Knights, inquisitors tasked with burning heretics and witches at the stake. After her encounter with Guts, she finds it increasingly difficult to resolve her faith with the atrocities she became party to, as Guts, inversely, takes action against something he disagrees with. Guts denounces the very idea of prayer, claiming that the act of clasping hands only prevents people from fighting for their lives. Farnese eventually begins to reject her faith and the rigidity of her beliefs after finding out the truth about Mozgus. After the battle between Guts and Mozgus, Farnese decides to follow Guts, to find a new purpose in her life, away from her social position and the church.
Berserk (manga) : The 1988 prototype chapter of Berserk placed second at the seventh ComiComi's Manga-School prize. The manga was a finalist for the second, third, fourth, and fifth installments of the Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize in 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively. In 2002, Berserk earned Miura the Award for Excellence at the sixth installment of the Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize, being awarded along with Takehiko Inoue, who won the Grand Prize for Vagabond. Berserk was one of the Manga Division's Jury Recommended Works at the fifth and sixth installments of the Japan Media Arts Festival Awards in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Berserk: Birth of the Black Swordsman, a 15-second video commercial for the 2016 anime television series adaptation, was one of the Entertainment Division's Jury Recommended Works at the 20th installment of the Japan Media Arts Festival Awards in 2017. In 2016, Berserk ranked 38th on the 17th "Book of the Year" list by Da Vinci magazine; it ranked 44th on the 22nd list in 2022. On TV Asahi's Manga Sōsenkyo 2021 poll, in which 150,000 people voted for their top 100 manga series, Berserk ranked 91st. In 2007, the manga received the prize of best seinen manga at the Japan Expo Awards. Berserk won the French AnimeLand's Anime & Manga Grand Prix for Best Classic Seinen in 2008, 2009 and 2013. It won the Spanish Manga Barcelona award for the seinen category in 2013 and 2021. The North American fourteenth volume of Dark Horse Comics's deluxe edition has been nominated for the Harvey Awards in the Best Manga category in 2024.
Berserk (manga) : Berserk is regarded as one of the most influential dark fantasy works. Peter Fobian, in an essay of the legacy and impact of Berserk, called it a "monolith not only for anime and manga, but also fantasy literature, video games, you name it," comparing its level of influence to Blade Runner, further adding: "it's difficult to imagine what the world might look like without it, and the generations of creators the series inspired." According to writer and editor Kazushi Shimada, series like Fullmetal Alchemist, Attack on Titan, Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba or Jujutsu Kaisen would not have existed if not for Berserk. Some dark fantasy manga authors who have declared influence from Berserk include Hajime Isayama (Attack on Titan), Kazue Kato (Blue Exorcist), and Yana Toboso (Black Butler). Other authors influenced by Berserk include Makoto Yukimura (Vinland Saga), Yūki Tabata (Black Clover), and Ryōgo Narita (Baccano! and Durarara!!). Adi Shankar, producer of the Castlevania animated series, said in an interview that he would like to adapt Berserk, calling the "hyper-detailed beauty" of Miura's artwork a "true masterpiece", while Adam Deats, Castlevania assistant director, stated that the show was inspired by Berserk. Critics like Gene Park of The Washington Post and Ramsey Isler of IGN stated that Berserk started a visual trend of characters wielding giant swords that spread to Cloud Strife from Final Fantasy VII, Dante from Devil May Cry, and Ichigo Kurosaki from Bleach. Berserk has also inspired a number of video games, including the Dynasty Warriors series, the Final Fantasy series (considerably Final Fantasy VII and XIV), the Dark Souls series, Bloodborne, Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, Elden Ring, and Capcom's Devil May Cry and Dragon's Dogma series. Finnish heavy metal band Battle Beast have written songs about Berserk, including several on their 2013 self-titled album. When guitarist Anton Kabanen left Battle Beast in 2015, he formed Beast in Black and continues to write songs about the series. The deathcore band Brand of Sacrifice released the album God Hand in 2019. Both the band and album are hugely inspired by Berserk. In 2021, deathcore band Slaughter to Prevail released a music video for their song "Zavali Ebalo", which featured scenes from the Berserk 1997 anime series.
Berserk (manga) : Speculative fiction/Horror portal Speculative fiction portal
Berserk (manga) : Berserk official website at Young Animal (in Japanese) "Large Berserk Exhibition: Kentaro Miura's 32 Years of Artistry" event official website (in Japanese) Berserk (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Black Powder War : Black Powder War is the third novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. The novel was first published by Del Rey in the United States on May 30, 2006, and by Voyager in the United Kingdom in August 2007.
Black Powder War : The story is set during an alternate history version of the Napoleonic Wars, in which dragons not only exist but are used as a staple of aerial warfare in Asia and Europe. The dragons of the story are portrayed as sentient and intelligent, capable of logical thought and human speech. The series centers primarily on events involving Temeraire (the titular dragon) and his handler, William Laurence.
Black Powder War : In Black Powder War, Captain William Laurence and Temeraire - along with the surviving members of their crew - are ordered to make all haste and return from the mission to China via Istanbul, where they are to take custody of three dragon eggs purchased from the Ottoman Empire by the British Government. Laurence and his first lieutenant John Granby are confused at the provenance of these orders, as there must surely be some British dragon nearer to Istanbul than they, but the promise of the eggs spurs them on. In a prologue, Laurence also observes the burial of Prince Yongxing, the primary antagonist of the previous novel, and the mourning of his much-distrusted albino dragon Lien. She is seen in company with the French diplomat de Guignes, which Laurence feels cannot bode well. Deciding to eschew the Allegiance, which suffers fire damage at the opening of the novel, Laurence takes the services of a guide named Tharkay, the well-bred but ostracized child of a British diplomat and a Nepalese woman. With his help, the group survives ambush in the Central Asian deserts, befriends a pack of feral dragons in the mountains of Turkestan, and makes its way to Istanbul. Once there, however, they face clear betrayal; the Sultan has chosen to ally himself with Napoleon, probably at the urging of Lien, who is now present in his court, and has seized the exorbitant payment offered him by the British Crown whilst simultaneously reneging on any intent to hand over the eggs in return. Lien makes a private visit to Temeraire and announces that she has set herself to his destruction; as opposed to merely killing him, she wishes to see Temeraire deprived of all he holds dear, and live out the rest of his life in squalor and despondency. In the end, Laurence and his crew simply steal the promised eggs, especially once they discover that one of them is a fire-breather of the Kazilik breed, something England has been trying to get into her Aerial Corps for hundreds of years. She hatches before the end of the book, naming herself Iskierka and accepting Granby as her captain. Temeraire and company escape to Europe, making an eventual landing in Austria. Laurence, who has been out of touch for over a year, learns more details of Napoleon's crushing victory at the Battle of Austerlitz, which he had only received scant details of during the voyage to China. The only good news to emerge from that battle is a Prussian declaration of alliance against Napoleon for what history today calls the War of the Fourth Coalition, and Laurence routes his travel through that nation. However, upon landing, Temeraire is immediately requisitioned: the Prussians were promised twenty dragons by the British Aerial Corps and have received none of them. Temeraire integrates into their ranks without much complaint, but the Prussian tactics, developed by Frederick the Great, are outdated and easily countered by the creativity of not only Napoleon but of Lien, who has once again made common cause with Temeraire's enemies. Despite the personal presence of King Frederick William III of Prussia and his wife Queen Louise, the Prussians are soundly defeated in the Battle of Jena-Auerstedt, and Temeraire is forced to ferry the royal family away. Thereafter the British crew find themselves at the fortress of Danzig, soon about to fall under siege. Though Laurence's main goal throughout the novel is the transport of the dragon eggs back to England, Temeraire's is to spread the word of what he observed in China. Britain's attitude towards dragons is that they must be harnessed by a human rider and put into service in the Aerial Corps as something of a steed, kept far away from human society and treated as well (or poorly) as the handler sees fit; as seen in the previous novel, Chinese dragons are instead full citizens who can own property and hold office in and of themselves. Temeraire's disappointment at Napoleon's victories is thus deeper than mere patriotism: Laurence has impressed on him the fact that the war must be prioritized over any consideration of equal draconic rights. His most unlikely ally, however, is Laurence himself: He has seen the material and significant benefits of human-draconic co-operation, which cemented the French triumphs. If Britain is to survive, Laurence confirms grimly, her human population must overcome their fear of dragons. The turning-point of the siege is the arrival of Tharkay, now at the head of the flock of Turkish ferals. Using these dragons and techniques observed in China, Laurence is able to rig out the entire flock as public transportation and evacuate the city, dropping the civilians into the waiting arms of the Royal Navy. Despite a harried exfiltration under fire and the loss of the city, Temeraire and Laurence are relieved to finally be returning to Britain. == References ==
Blood of Tyrants : Blood of Tyrants is the eighth novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. It was first published by Voyager Books in August 2013. This installment features the adventures of William Laurence and his dragon, Temeraire, in Japan, China, and Russia, as they attempt to muster up new allies in the year 1812.
Blood of Tyrants : William Laurence awakens on the shores of Japan. He finds himself in great confusion: afflicted with retrograde amnesia, he remembers nothing of how he came to know Chinese nor how he arrived on these shores. He is brought before the local magistrate, Kaneko Hiromasa, and kept in genteel imprisonment for straying outside Nagasaki, the sole port currently open to European traders. Temeraire, meanwhile, works with the other dragons of his formation to put to rights the Potentate, their dragon transport, which has run aground on a reef during a storm. Having made the ship seaworthy again, they set sail for Nagasaki, where diplomat Arthur Hammond wishes to make some overtures and to locate Laurence. They receive assistance in this matter from a friendly American dragon, John Wampanoag, a merchant captain attempting to expand his business into Japan. However, the only word is that Laurence has escaped: as Kaneko broke the law in giving shelter to a foreigner, his young retainer, Junichiro, absconded with Laurence to protect his master's honor. Temeraire feels additionally slowed by concern for Iskierka, who, after their mating in the previous novel, has produced an egg which must be cared for. Through a series of misadventures involving timber for Potentate's repairs, ongoing dragon surveillance and a lot of Western posturing, Laurence and Temeraire eventually reunite, but Temeraire is dismayed to learn that Laurence has no memory of him, and Laurence dismayed to learn that, in the eight years lost from his memory, he became a member of the Aerial Corps. Though the two quickly renew their friendship, the other captains remain stilted in Laurence's company, talking around subjects which would potentially cause him discomfort. However, Laurence applies himself willingly to the diplomatic mission at hand: he, an honorary son of the Jiaqing Emperor, is to visit Peking in hopes of forming an alliance between China and the United Kingdom. No sooner has he arrived than he is swept up in local politics; conservatives are attempting to assassinate the heir to the throne, Prince Mianning (the future Daoguang Emperor), using Western decoys as their catspaws. Temeraire is also concerned to learn that Lung Tien Chuan, his twin brother and one of only eight Celestials alive, has died of poisoning. This assassination has attacked Mianning's legitimacy, as an Emperor must have a Celestial companion and there are now none to spare; to this end, Temeraire consents to couple with Lung Qin Mei, an Imperial he had grown fond of during his last sojourn in China, to attempt to breed a new one. Chinese General Fela reports that the White Lotus Rebellion remains active; the Jiaqing Emperor assigns Laurence and Temeraire as royal liaisons to a Chinese army being sent south to pacify the situation. Under the overall command of General Chu, an experienced dragon who helped put down the original rebellion in 1804, the joint British-Chinese force moves out, allowing the British contingent a chance to see the Chinese military at work. They unmask the "rebellion" as a front for illegal smuggling operations. Additionally, matters between Temeraire and Laurence deteriorate when Temeraire confesses the great treason he and Laurence committed in Empire of Ivory. Laurence feels torn between the nobility of their actions and the hostility of their reception, while Temeraire berates himself for having reminded Laurence of something he clearly wished to forget. Temeraire flees the scene, upset, and so happens upon Arkady, one of the Turkish ferals, imprisoned; he is then set upon by dragons of the Chinese army. After fighting them off, he and Laurence reconcile and realize that the entire rebellion is a "false flag operation" designed by Chinese conservatives, led by General Fela, to discredit the British. Laurence is more concerned with the news that Arkady was ferrying Tenzing Tharkay as a courier, and with what news Tharkay might have; with General Chu's help, they stage a raid on the last remaining holdout of the rebellious forces, at Blue Crane mountain, and there discover Tharkay imprisoned. Tharkay's dispatches indeed prove dire: Napoleon's invasion of Russia is due to launch in but one month. However, Tharkay's discovery aids Laurence in helping his memory to return. With Iskierka's egg safely bestowed into Chinese care, Laurence and Temeraire, accompanied by General Chu and a newly mustered army, head northwest to Russia, whilst the rest of Lily's formation returns to the Potentate to give aid in Portugal. Because of Britain's inability to support Prussia during the War of the Fourth Coalition (as covered in Black Powder War), the Russians treat Hammond's promises of 300 Chinese dragons with some skepticism. When the Chinese units arrive, they help to force a stalemate at the Battle of Borodino; however, the Russians are outflanked by General Saint-Cyr advancing from occupied St. Petersburg (for which Napoleon makes him a Marshal of France), and are forced to fall back, abandoning Moscow. Additionally, Laurence discovers the terrible conditions of the Russian breeding grounds, in which dragons are kept on starvation rations and hobbled via metal spikes through their wings. He proposes to General Kutuzov that conditions be improved; he is somewhat surprised when Kutuzov agrees wholeheartedly, and attempts to bring the Russian ferals to bear on the French. However, the French have also learned of the situation, and are able to orchestrate attacks on the Russian supply-lines simply by freeing the beasts to do as they please. Though Laurence and Temeraire succeed in capturing Marshal Murat (whom the Tsar exiles to Tobolsk) and his dragon Liberté, this does not prevent Napoleon from advancing on the Russian position at Kaluga. The novel ends with Temeraire and Laurence deep in Russia, low on provender, and the first snow of the fateful winter of 1812/1813 beginning to fall. == References ==
Bone (comics) : Bone is an American fantasy comic book limited series written and illustrated by Jeff Smith, originally serialized in 55 irregularly released issues from 1991 to 2004. The series is primarily self-published by Smith's Cartoon Books; it was also briefly published by Image Comics. The issues were collected into nine volumes, as well as a single omnibus volume. Since 2005, color editions of the volumes are published by Scholastic's Graphix imprint. The series intertwines comedy and dark fantasy. Bone has received numerous awards, among them ten Eisner Awards and eleven Harvey Awards.
Bone (comics) : Bone follows the eponymous Bone cousins, who appear as white-skinned cartoon humanoids: everyman Fone Bone, wealthy and self-serving Phoncible P. "Phoney" Bone, and simpleminded Smiley Bone. When Phoney mounts an ill-fated campaign for mayor, he is forced out of their hometown of Boneville, with Smiley and a reluctant Fone Bone following him. After the cousins find themselves in a desert, Smiley finds a hand-drawn map that they use to navigate their way across the fantasy landscape. The cousins are separated by a swarm of locusts and individually end up in a mysterious valley, a journey made more difficult by the pursuing Rat Creatures. Eventually, they reunite at the Barrelhaven tavern, where they are taken in by a mysterious girl named Thorn and her grandmother, "Gran'ma Ben". Fone Bone instantly develops a crush on Thorn and repeatedly attempts to express his love through poetry. As they stay longer in the Valley, they learn that it is under threat from the Rat Creatures, led by Kingdok; and the Lord of the Locusts. The Bones are gradually drawn into the events around them, compelling them on a hero's journey to help free the Valley.
Bone (comics) : Bone has been noted for "defying" categorization. Smith claims that the series not originally written for an adolescent audience; however, it is this age group that serves as its largest readership. Throughout its run, Bone shifts from a largely comical series to a more serious tone as the characters and setting develop. It is additionally said to have a "darker subtext about power and evil". Smith made the decision to illustrate Bone in black-and-white, which critics speculate is so that he could maintain the clear lines that allow for exaggerated characters that contrast their subtle, detailed backgrounds. The story is mainly set in the Valley, though Boneville is mentioned throughout. Boneville is never actually shown, but is implied to be technologically contemporary, while the Valley is depicted as medieval, inasmuch as its citizens employ a barter system, weapons, and modes of transportation similar to those of the Middle Ages, and Phoney persistently refers to the people of the Valley as "yokels".
Bone (comics) : Smith originated Bone as a sketch he drew as a child, resembling a telephone handset receiver. This original drawing, a frowning character with its mouth wide open, resembled characteristics of who would become the Bone cousins. When Smith was ten, he began creating comics featuring the characters. The comics had many major influences throughout their creation. Smith mostly modeled Bone structurally around Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn. He enjoyed how it "start(s) off very simple, almost like children's stories ... but as it goes on, it gets a little darker, and the themes become a little more sophisticated and more complex". Smith was also inspired by Carl Barks' character Scrooge McDuck. Smith said that he "always wanted Uncle Scrooge to go on a longer adventure. I thought, 'Man, if you could just get a comic book of that quality, the length of say, War and Peace, or The Odyssey or something, that would be something I would love to read, and even as a kid I looked everywhere for that book, that Uncle Scrooge story that was 1,100 pages long". Other influences in this regard include the original Star Wars trilogy, J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings and the classic fairy tales and mythologies that inspired those works. Moby Dick, Smith's favorite book, is cited for its multi-layered narrative and symbolism, and numerous references to it are placed throughout Bone. Bone was also influenced by other comics, including Charles Schulz's Peanuts and Walt Kelly's Pogo. While Smith attended the Ohio State University, he created a comic strip titled Thorn for the student newspaper, The Lantern, which included some of the characters who later featured in Bone. After college, Smith and his friends produced animation work on commission in their studio, Character Builders Inc., but Smith eventually decided against an animation career. Seeking instead to develop a comic book series, and convinced by the successes of Frank Miller's The Dark Knight Returns and Art Spiegelman's Maus that a serious comic book with a beginning, middle and end structure was both artistically and commercially viable, Smith decided to produce Bone. In 1991, Smith launched his company, Cartoon Books, to publish the series. Initially, Smith self-published the series, doing all of the work to produce and distribute the series through his business himself; this made it difficult for Smith to focus on writing and drawing the book, and as a result, he fell behind in his production. To solve this, he asked his wife, Vijaya Iyer, to resign from her job at a Silicon Valley startup company and serve as president of Cartoon Books, managing the business related to the series. Smith was able to refocus on his work on Bone, and sales improved. In 1995, Smith began briefly publishing Bone through Image Comics. Smith believed this would be a temporary arrangement, and to maintain the book's place in catalogs, the collected volumes remained under the Cartoon Books label. Bone ended with its 55th issue, dated June 2004. The back cover has, in place of the usual comic panel, a black-and-white photo of Smith in his studio drawing the last page on May 10. In an interview on Attack of the Show, Smith revealed that he drew the last page before working on the first issue.
Bone (comics) : Analysis of Bone by Stephen Weiner (2023), published by About Comics (ISBN 978-1-949996-57-9)
Bone (comics) : Official website Bone at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on February 22, 2018.
Adventure Time season 7 : The seventh season of Adventure Time, an American animated television series created by Pendleton Ward, premiered on Cartoon Network on November 2, 2015, and concluded on March 19, 2016, and was produced by Frederator Studios and Cartoon Network Studios. It follows the adventures of Finn, a human boy, and his best friend and adoptive brother Jake, a dog with magical powers to change shape and size at will. Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo, where they interact with the show's other main characters: Princess Bubblegum, The Ice King, Marceline the Vampire Queen, Lumpy Space Princess, BMO, and Flame Princess. The season was storyboarded and written by Tom Herpich, Steve Wolfhard, Seo Kim, Somvilay Xayaphone, Jesse Moynihan, Adam Muto, Ako Castuera, Sam Alden, Kirsten Lepore, Andres Salaff, Hanna K. Nyström, Luke Pearson, Lyle Partridge, Kris Mukai, Graham Falk, and Kent Osborne. The seventh season of Adventure Time features an eight-episode story-arc, promoted and originally broadcast as the miniseries Stakes, which examines Marceline's backstory and follows Finn, Jake, Bubblegum, and Marceline as they attempt to defeat several newly resurrected vampires. This season also features the stop-motion episode "Bad Jubies", directed by guest animator Kirsten Lepore. The season premiered with the episode "Bonnie & Neddy", which was viewed by 1.07 million viewers (this marked a decrease in ratings from the previous season finale, "Hot Diggity Doom"/"The Comet"). The Stakes miniseries, which aired near the beginning of the season, rated well, with each episode being seen by around 1.8 million viewers. The season concluded with "The Thin Yellow Line", which was watched by 1.15 million viewers; this made it the lowest-rated Adventure Time season finale at the time. Critical reception to the season was largely positive, and the episode "The Hall of Egress" was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Short-format Animation at the 68th Primetime Emmy Awards. At the same event, Herpich and Jason Kolowski each won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation, for their work on "Stakes Part 8: The Dark Cloud" and "Bad Jubies", respectively. "Bad Jubies" won an Annie Award for Best Animated Television/Broadcast Production for Children. Several compilation DVDs that contain episodes from the season have been released, and the full season was released on DVD on July 18, 2017.
Adventure Time season 7 : The voice actors for the season included: Jeremy Shada (Finn the Human), John DiMaggio (Jake the Dog), Tom Kenny (The Ice King), Hynden Walch (Princess Bubblegum), and Olivia Olson (Marceline the Vampire Queen). Ward provided the voice for several minor characters, including Lumpy Space Princess. Former storyboard artist Niki Yang voices the sentient video game console BMO in English, as well as Jake's girlfriend Lady Rainicorn in Korean. Polly Lou Livingston, a friend of Pendleton Ward's mother, Bettie Ward, voices the small elephant, Tree Trunks. Jessica DiCicco voices Flame Princess, Finn's ex-girlfriend and the sovereign of the Fire Kingdom. Andy Milonakis voices N.E.P.T.R., a sentient robot who makes and throws pies. Several episodes also feature The Lich, the series' principal antagonist. The Lich's demonic form is voiced by Ron Perlman. The Adventure Time cast recorded their lines together to capture more natural-sounding dialogue among the characters. Hynden Walch has described these group sessions as akin to "doing a play reading—a really, really out there play." Guest voices were provided by actors, musicians, artists, and others. Andy Daly returned as the King of Ooo and Paul Scheer as Toronto in the season premiere "Bonnie and Neddy". Daly would go on to be featured in other season seven episodes as well, like "Varmints", "Mama Said", "May I Come In?", "Take Her Back", and "The Dark Cloud". "Bonnie & Neddy" also features supervising director Andres Salaff voicing Neddy. Anne Heche returned to voice the titular character in "Cherry Cream Soda", and storyline writer Jack Pendarvis reprised his role as Root Beer Guy. Pendarvis returned in the episode "Mama Said", with storyboard artist Ako Castuera as the voice of Canyon. The miniseries features Sugar as Marceline's mother, Ava Acres as a young Marceline, Rebecca Romijn as The Empress, Billy Brown as the Vampire King, Paul Williams as the Hierophant, Ron Funches as the Fool, Beau Billingslea as the Moon, and Kyle Kinane as Cloud Dance. "The More You Moe, the Moe You Know" features Chuck McCann reprising his role as Moe, and guest stars Thu Tran as AMO. Paget Brewster and Ron Lynch return in "Summer Showers" and voice Viola and Mr. Pig, respectively. In "Angel Face", Kyla Rae Kowalewski reprises her role as Me-Mow. "Weird Al" Yankovic returns as Banana Man in "President Porpoise is Missing", with James Urbaniak as Vice President Blowfish. Kevin Michael Richardson appears in "Bad Jubies", lending his voice to an automated storm alert and an aggressive storm. In "King's Ransom", storyboard artist Tom Herpich reprises the role of Mr. Fox. Max Charles appears in "Scamps", voicing Hugo the chocolate-dipped marshmallow. "Crossover" features Kumail Nanjiani and James Kyson reprising their roles of Prismo and Big Destiny, respectively; Lou Ferrigno appears in the same episode, playing Bobby, an alternate universe variant of the hero Billy. In "Flute Spell", Jenny Slate voices Huntress Wizard and Steve Agee voices Science Cat. Tunde Adebimpe, the lead singer from the band TV on the Radio, appears in "The Thin Yellow Line", voicing Banana Guard 16. Various other characters are voiced by Tom Kenny, Dee Bradley Baker, Maria Bamford, Steve Little, Kent Osborne, and Melissa Villaseñor.
Adventure Time season 7 : On January 19, 2016, Warner Home Video released Stakes in its entirety on DVD. The DVD release Card Wars (2016) also contains several seventh-season episodes. These DVD release can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
Chapter 9: The Marshal : "Chapter 9: The Marshal" is the first episode of the second season of the American streaming television series The Mandalorian. It was written and directed by the series' showrunner Jon Favreau and released on Disney+ on October 30, 2020. The episode stars Pedro Pascal as the Mandalorian, a lone bounty hunter on the run with "the Child", in search of other Mandalorians to help him return the Child to his people. The episode was critically acclaimed, with praise for the performances (especially Olyphant's) and Favreau's writing and direction.
Chapter 9: The Marshal : Seeking other Mandalorians to help him reunite the Child with its kind, the Mandalorian approaches gangster Gor Koresh, who attempts to kill him for his beskar armor but fails. Under interrogation, he reveals that a Mandalorian has been seen in the town of Mos Pelgo on Tatooine. Returning to Tatooine, the Mandalorian is reunited with mechanic Peli Motto. Although she thought that Mos Pelgo had been destroyed, her droid R5-D4 shows them an old map. The Mandalorian finds Mos Pelgo and confronts the town's marshal, Cobb Vanth, who is wearing dark green Mandalorian armor. Vanth reveals that he is not a Mandalorian but bought the armor from Jawas and then used it to fight off the Mining Collective that overtook the town after the collapse of the Empire. After Vanth and the Mandalorian witness a Krayt Dragon eating the town's livestock, Vanth agrees to give up the armor, if the Mandalorian helps kill the dragon. On the way to the dragon's lair, Vanth and the Mandalorian encounter a tribe of Tusken Raiders, who agree to help them kill the dragon. The Mandalorian volunteers the Mos Pelgo townspeople as reinforcements. Vanth and the Mandalorian convince the townsfolk to work with the Tuskens, who agree not to attack the town in exchange for the dragon's carcass. Together, the Tuskens and the townsfolk bury explosives in front of the cave, planning to lure the dragon out and detonate them beneath its vulnerable belly. The dragon survives the explosion and spews acid at them, inflicting heavy casualties. The Mandalorian baits the dragon into swallowing him and a bantha loaded with explosives. He escapes from inside the dragon and detonates the explosives, successfully killing it. The Tuskens butcher the carcass and recover a valuable pearl. Vanth relinquishes the armor as promised, and the Mandalorian leaves on friendly terms. Meanwhile, a heavily scarred figure watches from afar.
Chapter 9: The Marshal : "Chapter 9: The Marshal" received critical acclaim. On Rotten Tomatoes, the episode received an approval rating of 95% based on reviews from 82 critics, with an average rating of 8/10. The website's critics consensus reads, "With surprising twists, delightful turns, and tons of turbo-loaded action, "The Marshal" is a spectacular return for The Mandalorian that doesn't skimp on the Baby Yoda." Nick Allen of RogerEbert.com praised the krayt dragon action sequence and Ludwig Göransson's score. Dan Fienberg of The Hollywood Reporter was concerned that season 2 of the show might become bloated or spoiled in some way by its success, but concluded, "The result was, for a little show, easily its biggest and perhaps most purely entertaining episode to date." Ben Lindbergh of The Ringer criticized the episode's similarity to previous episodes and stated that the episode "resembled a blend of the mostly monster-of-the-week episodes in the middle of last season, which didn't shed a lot of light on the overarching plot."
Chapter 9: The Marshal : "Chapter 9: The Marshal" at IMDb "Chapter 9: The Marshal" at StarWars.com "Chapter 9: The Marshal" on Wookieepedia, a Star Wars wiki
Characters of the Drakengard series : Drakengard is an action role-playing game released on PlayStation 2 (PS2) in 2003 in Japan and 2004 in the West. The first entry in a series of the same name, it spawned two follow-up titles; a direct sequel Drakengard 2 (2005), and a prequel Drakengard 3 (2013). A subseries spun-off from one of the original game's endings began in 2010 with the release of Nier, which was followed by Nier: Automata (2016) and Nier Reincarnation (2021). Both the Drakengard and Nier series have been supported by expanded media. The universe of Drakengard is split into multiple timelines, with some of the events detailed in either games or supplementary material leading into different entries in the series. The main setting used by the Drakengard games is Midgard, a dark fantasy version of Medieval Europe drawing inspiration from the folklore of Northern Europe. A key aspect of the Drakengard universe is the "pact", a ritual that links souls and grants a human great power in return for some aspect of themselves (such as their voice, charm, aging ability) while the beast partner feeds on their negative emotions. The Nier titles take place in a reality stemming from the fifth ending of Drakengard, although the connection is minimal. The original game's characters were created by director Taro Yoko, and producers Takamasa Shiba and Takuya Iwasaki. Other contributors over the years include series writer Sawako Natori, and supplementary writer Emi Nagashima. The first game's characters were created as a deliberate contrast with the casts of other popular role-playing games of the time. For Drakengard 2, director Akira Yasui insisted on a tonal shift, influencing both the story and character designs. For Drakengard 3, the majority of the main characters were female and inspired by multiple sources including contemporary anime. Character designs for Drakengard were done by Kimihiko Fujisaka and Taro Hasegawa. The characters original Nier's characters were designed by Korean artist D.K, with the game notably using different different versions of the main protagonist for Japan and overseas releases. Later Nier titles saw contributions from several artists including Akihiko Yoshida. Reviewers have been mostly positive about the games' characters: the first game's cast received favorably, and many praised their dialogue. Opinions were more mixed about the characters of Drakengard 2, which certain reviewers claimed were weaker than those of the previous game. Drakengard 3 was criticized for uneven writing, but it received praise for its unusual characters and their interactions. Nier's cast and the relationship between its story and characters were lauded. The characters of Drakengard and Nier have gained a strong following in Japan.
Characters of the Drakengard series : Drakengard's characters were positively received upon the game's release. IGN's Jeremy Dunham praised both the game's dark setting and the characters' realistic portrayals: both were compared favorably to the characters and atmosphere of Neon Genesis Evangelion. VideoGamer.com's Adam Jarvis and the reviewer for Computer and Video Games (CVG) both praised the characters' dialogue. Jarvis called the dialogue "beautiful", while the CVG reviewer called it "mature" and "witty", and saying it competed with and occasionally surpassed the standard dialogue found in other role-playing games of the time. GameSpot's Greg Kavasin said that the main cast "while not terribly well developed, is interesting and rather unconventional". Drakengard 2 drew a more mixed response. Eurogamer's Simon Parkin was highly critical of protagonist Nowe, citing several points where his behavior was unbelievable given the situation, eventually calling him "a little nauseating to watch". The reviewer for GameTrailers also seemed unimpressed by any aspect of the narrative, citing it as a "cookie-cutter RPG plot". Greg Meuller of GameSpot negatively noted the lighter tone of the sequel, but praised the villains and the voice acting, although said that "a couple of the voices do tend to get annoying, which is unfortunate, since they happen to be the voices you'll hear the most". The characters of Drakengard 3 received a similarly mixed reception from critics. RPGFan's Derek Heemsbergen called the dialogue between the characters "strange and often hilarious", despite some stumbles. GameSpot's Heidi Kemps also commented on the inter-character dialogue, calling it "frequently amusing and well written", and commended the localization team for their work. GamesRadar's Becky Cunningham generally praised the voice acting for the characters, and stated that the relationship between Mikhail and Zero "adds gravitas to the story." Destructoid's Chris Carter generally found the characters engaging, and said that the dialogue was "not laugh out loud funny all the time, but I found myself smiling and chuckling consistently throughout." IGN's Meghan Sullivan was mainly negative about the characters, citing their dialogue as poorly written. Game Informer's Kimberley Wallace was unimpressed with the writing or characters, stating that, despite some good one-liners from Zero, the game's "attempts at quirky humor fail". Reactions to Nier's characters were generally positive. GameSpot's Kevin VanOrd found most of the characters entertaining, although he found Nier a bland character, and thought that Kainé's swearing clashed with the game's atmosphere. Dustin Quillen of 1UP was very positive, saying that the game sported "a supporting cast of genuinely interesting folks". Seth Schiesel of The New York Times said that Nier "succeeds at fostering an emotional investment in its characters and in its world". IGN's Brian Clements praised the characters' voice acting, calling it "quite excellent". The characters of the main series have been popular in Japan. When Dengeki held a popularity contest for the characters to celebrate both the series' tenth anniversary and the announcement of Drakengard 3, Caim, Angelus, Nowe, Urick and Manah were among the most popular characters. Caim has earned the nickname Prince (王子, Ōji) among fans of the games. The characters of Drakengard 3 were also popular, with Zero and Mikail ranking high in a second Dengeki survey after the third game's release. Characters from the main series have been featured in the Lord of Vermilion arcade game series alongside characters from other Square Enix franchises.
Characters of the Drakengard series : Drakengard Official English website Drakengard 2 Official English website (North America) Drakengard 3 Official English website Nier Official Japanese website Nier: Automata English portal
Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty : "Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty" is the fourth episode of the fourth season of the Adult Swim animated television series Rick and Morty. Written by Jeff Loveness and directed by Anthony Chun, the episode was broadcast on December 8, 2019. A stand-alone sequel miniseries, Rick and Morty: Worlds Apart, was published by Oni Press from February 3 to May 5, 2021.
Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty : After being pestered by Morty to get him a dragon as promised, Rick reluctantly acquiesces and makes a deal with a wizard, who creates a soul contract between Morty and the dragon Balthromaw. Morty tries to play with Balthromaw, but it is clear Balthromaw dislikes Morty. Angered at Balthromaw damaging the floor with his fire snoring, Rick is about to evict the dragon, but they both end up realizing they have much in common and inadvertently soul bond. The Wizard then arrives, accuses Balthromaw of being a "slut dragon", and takes him away to be executed. Rick helps Morty rescue Balthromaw, since the soul bond means he will die if Balthromaw does. With the help of other "slut dragons", Rick and Morty are able to kill the Wizard, freeing all the dragons from enslavement and breaking the soul bond. Now uncomfortable with how sexual dragons are and Balthromaw's clinginess, Rick and Morty part ways with the dragon. Meanwhile, Jerry encounters a talking cat in his bedroom, but Rick insists he has nothing to do with it. The cat convinces Jerry to take it to Florida to find fun at a beach party, but the cat betrays Jerry by framing him of defecating on the beach. Later, the cat ends up annoying everybody at the party, resulting both of them being ejected. Rick and Jerry scan the cat's mind to figure out why it can talk, and are horrified by what they see. They chase the cat away and Rick erases Jerry's memory of the incident. In the post-credits scene, the talking cat crosses paths with Balthromaw, and asks him if he can fly him to Florida.
Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty : The episode features guest actors Liam Cunningham as Balthromaw the dragon, Matthew Broderick as the talking cat, and Tom Kenny as Shadow Jacker.
Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty : "Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty" at IMDb
Crucible of Gold : Crucible of Gold is the seventh novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. This installment features the adventures of William Laurence and his dragon, Temeraire, in South America. Crucible of Gold was released in hardcover and e-Book formats in North America and the United Kingdom by Voyager Books on March 6, 2012.
Crucible of Gold : William Laurence and Temeraire, who have decided to make a pastoral life for themselves in the British colony of New South Wales, are disturbed by the arrival of the diplomat Arthur Hammond, lately assigned to China, who bears dire news. The Portuguese colony of Brazil is besieged by forces allied to Napoleon Bonaparte, but not belonging to him: the Emperor of France has found common cause with the Tswana, now undisputed masters of the African continent. Their stated desire of retrieving all Africans captured and sold by the slave trade has brought them to Brazil, where the Crown Prince of Portugal, João, has sought refuge. As Portugal itself is the safe harbor to Britain's latest plan, a ground offensive into France itself, Brazil's safety is of paramount importance, and Hammond restores Laurence's commission and captaincy to address the crisis. Temeraire and Kulingile, with their much-reduced air and ground crews, rejoin with Iskierka aboard the Allegiance, which begins to make its way east. Unfortunately, Captain Riley's crew is undependable, and after weathering a five-day gale, breaches in discipline lead to a drunken galley fire; the ship is lost, with only the most drunken and irresponsible hands saved, as Laurence had ordered them aboard Temeraire for disciplinary action. The three dragons fly east for three days straight, eventually collapsing aboard the nearest ship they can find; alas, it is the French transport Triomphe, bearing a diplomatic envoy of Chrétien-Louis-Joseph de Guignes and Juliette Récamier to the Inca Empire, and Temeraire's company are marooned on a small island for later retrieval. Only the discovery of a wrecked pirate ship, its maps still legible, allows Laurence to chart a course back to the mainland. On Incan soil, the Britons must deal with lingering distrust towards Europeans thanks to the uncouth actions of Francisco Pizarro; the empire has managed to survive those depredations, but smallpox has further depleted their numbers. Most ayllu, formerly partnerships between humans and dragons, are now ruled solely by dragons, who are so jealous of "their" humans that kidnapping is now something of a norm. Hammond begins to make diplomatic endeavors towards the Sapa Inca, aided by Iskierka, who soaks up popular acclaim for her dueling prowess. Eventually, it is revealed that the empress, widow of the former monarch but now ruler in her own right, is being pressured by her court to take up a consort, and Iskierka, obsessed with wealth and social acclaim, proposes her captain Granby as a suitor. As such a match would be greatly desirable to British fortunes, Granby is pressured into the role, despite a private confession to Laurence of his own homosexuality, and the two are practically at the altar when a new suitor arrives to press his claim: Napoleon himself, lately divorced from Joséphine de Beauharnais and eligible for remarriage. The British are sent away while she contemplates her new prospects; the first and only sign of her decision are Incan troops advancing upon their encampment. Escaping largely by the assistance of Churki, an Incan dragon who has adopted Hammond into her ayllu, the British party travel to Belém and from there to Rio de Janeiro, only to find it already occupied by the Tswana, led particularly by Kefentse, the dragon responsible for Laurence's captivity during the events of Empire of Ivory. With Napoleon and the Inca now poised to attack from the south, Laurence advocates to Prince João an immediate treaty with the Tswana, the only military force which can possibly defend Brazil, even after the arrival of Lily, Maximus and the rest of Temeraire's former formation. Of course, to gain the Tswana's allegiance, Brazil must accept manumission of their slaves; and the Tswana refuse to ally unless the Britons can promise what Napoleon has: immediate sea passage to all Africans, human or dragon, wishing to return home. Laurence decides the matter by seizing the two full-size dragon transports, the Polonaise and the Maréchal, Napoleon had detailed to the task. With Britain in control of the seas, Hammond manages to convince the Portuguese into accepting the new bargain. As the novel ends, Laurence is approached by Gong Su, the cook he and Temeraire hired when they left China during Black Powder War. He reveals that he is a servant of Prince Mianning, son of the Jiaqing Emperor and heir-apparent to China, and suggests a return to the Middle Kingdom to discuss Napoleon's ongoing conquest of the world. Hammond sees the chance to forge an alliance with China, and he, Temeraire and Laurence resolve to go. == References ==
Delicious in Dungeon : Delicious in Dungeon (Japanese: ダンジョン飯, Hepburn: Danjon Meshi, lit. "Dungeon Meal") is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Ryoko Kui. It was serialized in Enterbrain's seinen manga magazine Harta from February 2014 to September 2023, with its chapters collected in fourteen tankōbon volumes. The story follows a group of adventurers in a fantasy world who, after failing to defeat a dragon that consumed one of their own, embark on a journey through a dungeon to rescue her, surviving by cooking and eating the monsters they encounter along the way. Yen Press has licensed the series in North America. An anime television series adaptation produced by Trigger aired from January to June 2024. A second season has been announced.
Delicious in Dungeon : In a fantasy world of dungeon exploration, adventuring parties set out on expeditions to raid dungeons, with many hoping to find the mysterious Golden Kingdom, which is said to be the treasure of an island dungeon. The story begins as a group of adventurers unsuccessfully attempt to slay a red dragon and are forced to escape as it consumes the leader's sister, Falin Touden, a "tallman" (human) spellcaster. Wanting to rescue Falin, who used magic to teleport them to safety, the remaining members of the party—Laios Touden, a tallman swordsman; Chilchuck Tims, a halfling locksmith; and Marcille Donato, an elven spellcaster—brainstorm how to get back to the dungeon level with the dragon in time to save Falin from digestion. With most of their supplies left behind in the dungeon, their mission seems impossible until Laios, who secretly wants to eat dungeon monsters, suggests they sustain themselves by finding food inside, to which Chilchuck and Marcille reluctantly agree. Inside, they encounter Senshi, a dwarf with many years of experience surviving in the dungeon by cooking monsters and harvesting food. The story details their travels through the dungeon, the environments, traps, and monsters they encounter, and the meals they create.
Delicious in Dungeon : Official anime website (in Japanese) Delicious in Dungeon on Netflix Delicious in Dungeon (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Dota: Dragon's Blood : Dota: Dragon's Blood is an adult animated epic fantasy television series. It is based on Dota 2, a 2013 video game by Valve. The show is produced by Studio Mir in association with Ashley Edward Miller's company Kaiju Boulevard. The series premiered on Netflix on March 25, 2021. and concluded on August 11, 2022.
Dota: Dragon's Blood : Set in a fantasy world of magic and mysticism, the story follows a Dragon Knight, Davion, who hunts and slays dragons to make the world a safer place. In a battle between demons and the dragon race of Eldwurm, the dragon Slyrak merges his soul with Davion. Along with the moon princess Mirana, Davion pursues a journey to stop the demon Terrorblade, who wants to kill all dragons and collect their souls.
Dota: Dragon's Blood : Yuri Lowenthal as Davion, a Dragon Knight who hates dragons for massacring his family as a boy. After witnessing Terrorblade's evil, he allies with the Eldwurms, aiding Mirana and Marci on their quest, which the former became his love interest in Book 1. Lara Pulver as Princess Mirana, the exiled princess of the Nightsilver Woods, and Davion's love interest. She goes on a quest with Marci, her mute bodyguard, handmaid, and best friend, to recover the stolen lotuses of her patron goddess Selemene, in the end of Book 3, it is implied that she is pregnant with Davion's child, though it is unknown whether the child will have inherited any of the powerful abilities Davion had when he had merged with Slyrak's fiery essence. Lara also voices Empress Sherzi, Mirana's mother. Tony Todd as Slyrak, one of the eight Great Dragons of Creation and Destruction. Slyrak is a proud and destructive Eldwurm, using Davion as a host to stay alive and battle Terrorblade. Troy Baker as the Invoker/the Sage. A powerful elfin sorcerer who is pivotal to Mirana's quest, he hates Selemene for her role in the death of his child. He makes a deal with Terrorblade for his deeply beloved daughter's revival. He operates as a hidden antagonist, manipulating everyone to kill his former goddess lover, Selemene, and six of the remaining eldwurms (dragon elders), for Selemene having poisoned their daughter Filomena. Troy also voices Nico Hieronimo, a pangolin-like being who meets and accompanies Luna while she is in prison. Freya Tingley as Fymryn, a white-haired young elfin girl who steals lotuses from the Nightsilver Woods because of a prophecy about her Moon Goddess, Mene, of whom she is ultimately revealed to be her elfin reincarnation, having her godly abilities of long-range teleportation, and making ghostly duplicates of herself and make it as if she was never there. Josh Keaton as Bram, Davion's squire, now serving Kaden in "curing" Davion of Slyrak's possession. Kari Wahlgren as Luna. Once known as Scourge of the Plains, she commits war crimes upon the Elves who refuse to worship Selemene. Alix Wilton Regan as Selemene. Goddess of the Dark Moon, she is an antagonist to the elfin enclaves who refuse to worship her, and declares war on them following Mene. Egotistical and sacrificial of her subjects with extreme prejudice on all who do not worship her, even her own ailing daughter. Alix would later voice an older Filomena, born out of a remade universe in the Invoker's image, who was originally poisoned by her mother as a child. An intelligent, quick-witted scholar in her father's shadow, she uncovers the truth of her universe's creation, and seeks to prevent the impending cataclysm that the falling Ancients pose. Stephanie Jacobsen as Drysi, leader of the Elven Resistance against the Dark Moon Order's colonization and conversion of her people under Selemene's zealots. Anson Mount as Kaden. The only Dragon Knight to survive fighting an Eldwurm, he hunts for Slyrak who killed 29 of his friends in a battle two decades ago. He had an infant son and wife whom he left for the war. Matthew Waterson as Captain Frühling, the alcoholic inhabitant of Barrow Haven that commandeered the local soldiers against an Eldwurm attack. JB Blanc as Terrorblade. Terrorblade is the main antagonist of the series, a demon aiming to kill all the dragons in a plan to reshape the universe he desires. Doug Bradley as Viceroy Kashurra, a mysterious Eldwurm of the Void element who has contact with an ancient void that granted him sentience and the ability to disguise himself as a human for many decades to have "the Eye" (Princess Mirana) awaken and accept her destiny as the mortal reincarnation of the almighty Sun Goddess. Julie Nathanson as Rylai, a woman that found her innate elemental affinity to ice. She creates trouble for all those around her. Victoria Atkin as Lina, Rylai's older sister with the strength of a nuclear bomb and ambition to match. Called "the Slayer", she was known as a child of fire like Slyrak himself. She was ultimately murdered by the recently revealed Eldwyrm of the Void for hiring an assassin to end Princess Mirana's life and thus assume the crown.
Dota: Dragon's Blood : The series was announced by Netflix on 17 February 2021. It is a joint collaboration between South Korean studio Mir and American company Kaiju Boulevard. Production Reve which is another studio in South Korea provided the animation services for Book One while Studio Mir took over for Book Two. The animation style is a blend of anime and Western animation.
Dota: Dragon's Blood : Dota: Dragon's Blood debuted on March 25, 2021, on Netflix. A teaser trailer was released on February 19, followed by a full trailer on March 1. A promotional video, titled "Basshunter Dota Revival", was released on YouTube alongside the show's debut. In it, Swedish musician Basshunter is singing "Vi sitter i Ventrilo och spelar DotA" while playing Dota 2, with scenes from Dragon's Blood shown in between. During The International 2021 immediately following a trailer for season two, a video with 2D animation from Studio Mir was shown revealing original character Marci was being added to Dota 2 as a playable hero. Marci was added to the game as a part of gameplay update 7.30e on October 28. A second season was announced on April 19, 2021. Originally set for release on January 6, 2022, Book Two premiered on January 18. A third season premiered on August 11, 2022.
Dota: Dragon's Blood : For the first season, the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 75% approval rating, based on 12 reviews, with an average rating of 7.60/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "While knowledge of the game isn't necessary, it might have been nice if Dota: Dragon's Blood had translated more of its narrative prowess to the small screen."
Dota: Dragon's Blood : Dota: Dragon's Blood on Netflix Dota: Dragon's Blood at IMDb https://dotesports.com/dota-2/news/here-are-the-dota-2-patch-7-36a-notes
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : In the Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) fantasy role-playing game, dragons are an iconic type of monstrous creature. As a group, D&D dragons are loosely based on dragons from a wide range of fictional and mythological sources. Dungeons & Dragons allows players to fight the fictional dragons in the game (Tiamat being one of the most notable) and "slay their psychic dragons" as well. These dragons, specifically their "dungeon ecology", have implications for the literary theory of fantasy writing. D&D dragons also featured as targets of the moral panic surrounding the game. In D&D, dragons are depicted as any of various species of large, intelligent, magical, reptilian beasts, each typically defined by a combination of their demeanor and either the color of their scales or their elemental affinity. For example, a commonly presented species of dragon is the red dragon, which is named for its red scales, and known for its evil and greedy nature, as well as its ability to breathe fire. In the game, dragons are usually adversaries of player characters, and less commonly, allies or helpers.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Powerful and intelligent, the fictional dragons of Dungeons & Dragons are usually reptiles with magical abilities and breath weapons. The different subraces, distinguished by their coloring, vary in power. Despite the variety of dragons in D&D, a number of traits are common to nearly all types of dragons. All species are portrayed as generally reptilian or serpentine in their natural form. Except for the youngest dragons, they are described as quite large—usually at least as big as a horse, and often much larger. Most species are depicted to have wings and be capable of flight, and nearly all are quadrupedal. Almost all species of dragon are depicted as highly intelligent (at least as intelligent as a human being) and are able to speak. All species of dragon are noted to be magical in nature, and in most species this nature is expressed as an affinity for some type of elemental power. Some dragon species are naturally able to cast magical spells as well. Most dragons in D&D have the ability to breathe or expel one or more types of energy associated with their elemental affinity, as well as to resist some damage or injury from other sources of such energy. Some dragons have two different kinds of breath weapons, usually one that can cause physical harm to player characters (fire, ice, acid, lightning, etc.) and another that typically has a non-damaging effect (paralysis, repulsion, confusion, etc.). Dragons are noted to be egg-layers, and most are described with sharp teeth, horns, and claws. A dragon in D&D is protected by its scaly hide, the color of which is determined by the dragon's species, and which offers a visual clue to the specific elemental nature of each species of dragon. Each species of dragon has a particular temperament associated with it, as well as a moral outlook derived from that temperament; these factors underlie the personality and behavior of individual dragons. While dragons typically are not portrayed with wide variances in appearance or personality within a species, exceptions are possible, especially in certain in-game settings, such as Eberron. Because dragons in D&D are portrayed as monstrous creatures designed to antagonize player characters, the majority of dragons in D&D are described as evil by default. This was more prominent in the original Dungeons & Dragons releases (such as the Dungeons & Dragons "white box" set (1974) and Dungeons & Dragons Basic Set) where only the gold dragon was specified to be lawful good while all other colors were noted to be chaotic evil (red, green, black) or neutral evil (blue, white). Detailed information about dragonkind in the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th editions of D&D may be found in their respective editions of the Draconomicon, a supplement book designed to provide players with more information about dragons; fifth edition has the similarly-themed Fizban's Treasury of Dragons. No such book was published for the first edition, although the Basic game had a Bestiary of Dragons and Giants (coded AC10).
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : In D&D, true dragons continue to become more powerful as they mature and age; they grow bigger and stronger, become more resistant to damage and magic, their breath weapon become increasingly dangerous and their knowledge and magical abilities improves. Old dragons can cast draconic magic which is a special form of D&D magic; dragons can cast spells with just a few words, rather than a sometimes long and complex ritual involving words, gestures and preparations like other D&D wizards. In 3 and 3.5 editions dragons cast spells spontaneously like sorcerers do, sometimes having a wider choice of spells. Dragons also radiate a mystical fear aura around them. After a millennium or two, a dragon reaches their maximum development. Many D&D dragons have some innate magical abilities, but they vary from race to race. Metallic dragons are often able to shapechange into small animals or human forms, and use this ability to secretly help or watch over humans. Dragons also have some innate powers over the element they are linked to. For example, a red dragon (fire) will have some control over fires. Like all other draconic powers, they gain more as they grow older. Lesser dragons (such as wyverns, halfdragons or dragonwrought kobolds) may lack innate magical abilities, while still counting as dragons for purpose of all other effects.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : In many settings, the god-king of the metallic dragons is Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon, and the goddess and queen of the chromatic dragons is Tiamat, the Five-Headed Dragon. She is based on the Tiamat from Babylonian mythology, who was considered the evil mother of dragons, though the appearances of the fictional deity differs greatly from its model. The progenitor and supreme deity of all dragons in the game is known as Io. Other deities often included in the draconic pantheon of gods include Aasterinian, Chronepsis, and Faluzure. Other draconic gods may be present in different campaign settings.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Chromatic dragon is a classification of fictional dragon. Chromatic dragons are typically of evil alignment, in contrast to the metallic dragons, which are typically of good alignment. Chromatic dragons have played a large role in various D&D monster compilation books: white, black, green, blue and red dragons being the classic chromatic dragons. Tiamat is the queen of chromatic dragons, based on the evil mother of all dragons from Babylonian mythology.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Metallic dragon is a classification of dragon found in Dungeons & Dragons. In many campaign settings, metallic dragons are of good alignment. Bahamut is the deity of good-aligned dragons and metallic dragons, and currently the only known Platinum dragon in existence. Metallic dragons have played a large role in D&D's various monster compilation books, and for most of the game's history five main types – brass, copper, bronze, silver, and gold – were presented as roughly analogous to the five types of chromatic dragons. The fourth edition of the game's second Monster Manual substituted iron and adamantine dragons for brass and bronze, and released the latter dragons in a later book alongside cobalt, mercury, mithral, orium, and steel dragons.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Gem dragons are a classification of dragon based on "gem type rather than color or metal". They are typically of neutral alignment with respect to good and evil, but some kinds are quite egoistic and awful company nevertheless. The Gem dragon family comprise Amethyst Dragons, Crystal Dragons, Emerald Dragons, Sapphire Dragons, and Topaz Dragons. Sardior is the deity of gem dragons. Although Obsidian Dragons are also technically gem dragons, they are opposed to Sardior and most other gem dragons.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : In most descriptions, true dragons only comprise the two families of chromatic dragons and metallic dragons. There are, however, many more families among the true dragons, and some kinds exists outside any specific category.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Dungeons & Dragons for Dummies assigned the dragon a central role, stating that for many characters "the opportunity to fight a dragon (and pillage its hoard) is the reason you play the game". The authors also chose a specific dragon each among the ten best monsters for low- and mid-level characters. Michael Witwer et al. observed that few dragons appeared in adventures published early in the game's history, however, due to their extreme danger to characters: "Dragons were great for book and box covers; in games they were impractical. There simply wasn't a playable D&D framework for including dragons as a regular feature." The Dragonlance setting was developed as one means to remedy this discrepancy.: 173 Jon Peterson described dragons in D&D as greedy for treasure. He found it ironic, that they became the iconic creature in the game to conquer for the characters, as accumulation of treasures was one major goal of the game - exactly what the folkloric and fantasy images of hoarding dragons preceding D&D warned against. Similarly, Philip J. Clements wrote about Dungeons & Dragons: "Even the name suggests" that "both dungeons and dragons exist to be overcome and exploited by the power and cunning of the characters". GameSpy author Allan Rausch commented on the improvements in the depiction of dragons in 3rd edition artwork: "Dragons were redesigned with an eye toward giving them distinctive characteristics that would work in their preferred environments -- making them distinctively D&D dragons." The ancient blue dragon was ranked third among the ten best high-level 4th Edition monsters by the authors of Dungeons & Dragons 4th Edition For Dummies. The authors described the ancient dragons as "the most powerful versions of these majestic and deadly creatures, and the ancient blue dragon approaches the pinnacle of all dragon-kin", surpassed only by the red dragon. The authors concluded that "Few single challengers can stand long against the fury of this terrible dragon as it unleashes lightning and thunder." Screen Rant compiled a list of the game's "10 Most Powerful (And 10 Weakest) Monsters, Ranked" in 2018, calling the prismatic dragon one of the strongest, saying "It represents the ultimate challenge for any party of adventurers, though it would easily dispose of all but the most insanely overleveled groups. Defeating a prismatic dragon would also represent the ultimate challenge for the actual players, as they would likely expire from old age before rolling all of the dice necessary to finish an encounter with the creature."
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : A dragon was the main antagonist in the early handheld electronic games licensed to Mattel, the Dungeons & Dragons Computer Labyrinth Game (1980) and Dungeons & Dragons Computer Fantasy Game (1981) and appeared in the Intellivision games Cloudy Mountain (1982) and Treasure of Tarmin (1983).: 139–141 In 1981 Varanae published a supplement named Dragons detailing 50 new dragon types in the format of a Monster Manual. In 1986 a scenario also titled Dragons was published by Mayfair Games, with a war between good and evil dragons as backdrop, and including more background material about dragons. The black dragon, blue dragon, brass dragon, bronze dragon, copper dragon, gold dragon, green dragon, red dragon, silver dragon, and white dragon are fully detailed in Paizo Publishing's book Dragons Revisited (2009).
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Wyatt, James and Rob Heinsoo. Monstrous Compendium: Monsters of Faerun (Wizards of the Coast, 2001). Andy Collins, Skip Williams, and James Wyatt. Draconomicon (Wizards of the Coast, 2003).
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Cruz, Ronald Allan L. (2017). "Here Be Dragons: Using Dragons as Models for Phylogenetic Analysis". The American Biology Teacher. 79 (7): 544–551. doi:10.1525/abt.2017.79.7.544. S2CID 91044116. de Palmas Jauze, Daisy (2014). Les dragons de la Fantasy: legs du passé et renouveau. Editions du Panthéon. de Palmas Jauze, Daisy (2018). La Dragon Fantasy: Étude structurelle d'un sous-genre de la Fantasy. Editions du Panthéon.
Dragon (Dungeons & Dragons) : Official images of dragons by Wizards of the Coast: Red dragon Blue dragon Green dragon Black dragon White dragon Brown dragon Wyrms of the North Archive Bricken, Rob (27 February 2015). "The 16 Strangest Dragons In Dungeons & Dragons". io9. Accessed 25 December 2016.
Dragon Day : Dragon Day is an annual event that occurs the Friday before spring break at Cornell University. The center of the event is the procession of a dragon, created by first-year architecture students at the Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning. The construction is funded by selling Dragon Day t-shirts.
Dragon Day : The first event was in 1901. Believing that there should be a "College of Architecture Day," student Willard Straight of the class of 1901 led a group of architecture students around campus carrying a model dragon. This was partly inspired by the legend of St. Patrick driving all the snakes and serpents from Ireland. Lincoln Hall, which housed the College of Architecture at the time, was decorated with orange and green banners, shamrocks, and themed decorations. In the 1950s, the event evolved into its current form, with an actual constructed dragon. It is unknown when the term "Dragon Day" was coined, but it likely came into use in the 1950s. Since then, the holiday has turned into a parade for the dragon. Typically, the dragon is built by the entire first year architecture class as a bonding and team-building exercise. Although the parade takes place over a few hours, the event requires at least six weeks of planning and preparation beforehand. The event is fully student-funded, primarily through selling commemorative t-shirts. Although it is typically carried from beneath by architecture students, in 1964 and 1976 the dragon was mounted on a car and driven through the route. In 1985, the dragon fell over as it rounded Sibley Hall, and was not able to complete its route. In 2009, due to new New York State Department of Environmental Conservation regulations, the dragon was not burned at the end of the parade route; the dragon's "nest" was burned instead. Since the dragon can no longer be burned, various tactics have been employed to create a climactic spectacle. In 2012, first year architects squirted the dragon with paint. And in 2013, the white dragon was colored with multicolored Holi powder throughout the parade and at the Arts Quad finale. Dragon Day festivities were cancelled in 2020 and 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 2022 dragon was larger than usual. It was constructed by two AAP classes, and sported two heads to represent the two classes. 2023 marked a very strong comeback to Dragon Day since the pandemic. The freshman class sported a colorful dragon covered in recycled fabric with a rather cartoonish face. It was paraded through campus and destroyed at the ending ceremony in the Arts Quad. Its wings were placed on an installation in the Arts Quad.
Dragon Day : Dragon Day has been used as a form of political expression. At some point between its origin and 1920, the festivities were banned by Cornell's third president, Jacob Gould Schurman, because campus Catholics were offended by the theme. During the 1933-1934 school year, students constructed a large paper-mache beer stein to celebrate the repeal of Prohibition. In the 1950s, Dragon Day was cancelled in protest of Senator McCarthy's red scare. In 1968, the dragon was controversially painted entirely black in protest of the Vietnam War. In 1994, the possible cancellation of the Cornell in Rome architecture program prompted students to adopt a "Fall of Rome" theme. Campus pranks often surround Dragon Day. In 1966, a green pig was released into the Ivy Room, a dining hall, resulting in a massive food fight. In 1974, artist Oded Halahmy threatened to remove his outdoor sculptures from the campus after some were splattered with green paint and moved. The week before Dragon Day, the freshmen architects can be found running through campus lecture halls, barely clothed and painted green. That night they moon the windows of Uris Library's Cocktail Lounge. In 1990, the Department of Architecture severed all ties with the holiday due to the pranks, but began re-affiliating with it in 1993. Since the early 2000s, Nerd Walk has been an annual part of the event. The first-year students dress up and went through Cornell University libraries and engineering buildings (notably Duffield Hall) looking at books, attracting attention, and handing out quarter cards to advertise the Dragon Day event.
Dragon Day : Dragon Day signifies a rivalry between Cornell architecture students and those in the College of Engineering. During the second half of the 1980s, several incidents of violence between engineering and architecture students were associated with Dragon Day. Beginning in 1986, several attempts were made to channel engineers' frustrations into more creative outlets. In 1986, in the middle of the Cold War, a group of civil engineering students prepared a mock ICBM which they carried in an effort to ram the dragon as it passed by the engineering quad. They were immediately stopped short by architects protecting their creation. In the spring of 1987, a larger group of engineering students came together to once again create an organized response to Dragon Day. In an effort to reduce chances of violence, the group chose to create a rather passive phoenix bird to hover over the engineering quad as the dragon passed by. Unfortunately, the helium filled giant metallized plastic balloon deflated by the time the dragon rolled around over two hours late. Not satisfied with this mediocre performance, the group founded the Phoenix Society and vowed to annually meet the dragon with an engineering avatar. Dropping the non-aggressive stance, the group unanimously voted to construct a knight on horseback in the spring of 1988. Two days before Dragon Day, architects managed to break into the engineers' workshop. Fortunately the leader of the architects persuaded his fellow students to leave the engineers' knight unharmed and the group only made off with the original Phoenix Society banner, a remnant of the original mylar phoenix balloon. Thus the knight survived to confront the dragon, his horse rearing on his hind legs and his sword raised into the air. Following this first successful engineering confrontation with the dragon, a sporadic custom has developed, with varying themes: a Viking longboat in 1989, a cobra in 2001, a penguin in 2005. In 1998 and 1999, an industrious engineer using 3/4" bolt cutters managed to steal the steering wheel off of the car that the architects used for the frame of the dragon. The wheels were proudly displayed on the parapets of castles that the engineers constructed on the engineering quad to meet the dragon. The holiday is still traditionally carried on by freshmen. The windows of Rand Hall, the former home of design studios of the Department of Architecture, are decorated in anticipation of the event.
Dragon Day : Not to be confused with the Engineer Knight of 1988, the Theatre, Film, and Dance Knight is a recent addition to Dragon Day, now created yearly by students from the Department of Performing and Media Arts with a budget of under $500, a build time of less than 48 hours, and a work team numbering between 5-20. This tradition was begun partially as a student response to budget cuts handed down to the Department of Theatre, Film, and Dance by the College of Arts and Sciences and serves the dual purpose of establishing campus presence and proving departmental quality by submitting a float superior to its rivals. Chants during the event frequently make reference to the department overcoming these cuts. The knight made its first appearance in the spring of 2011, when students from Cornell's Department of Theatre, Film, and Dance constructed a large knight-like figure brandishing a pole-arm and pulled it into Ho Plaza with the stated intention of "slaying the dragon". However, they were asked to kindly step to the side as the dragon passed through the square. The students complied, but then resorted to heckling the architects and chanting in protest of the budget cuts. The 2011 knight's final showing was a dramatic traversing of the Arts Quad, where the students alternated between chanting clever quips and singing "We Shall Overcome". Incarnations of the knight in past years have included a skeletal horseman atop a rearing horse in the spring of 2012, and the Black Knight from Monty Python and the Holy Grail in the spring of 2013, featuring a moving head controlled by a puppeteer and arm stumps that sprayed water at the surrounding crowd. The knight serves as a student memorial to the Department of Theatre, Film, and Dance, which has since been renamed the Department of Performing and Media Arts.
Dragon Day : Starting in 2014, the physics community—motivated both by being left out of Dragon Day and also by the fact that like the architects and engineers, physicists are very capable of building things—has entered the fray of Dragon Day festivities. In 2014, a team of physicists—composed of mostly graduate students, but also some undergraduate students—constructed the first annual Physics Unicorn, modeled after Twilight Sparkle. The tradition was continued in 2015 with the creation of a silver unicorn army commanded by Tyrael—that is, a student dressed up as Tyrael.
Dragon Day : The dragon 'float' is designed and constructed by the first-year architecture students. Construction takes place in Rand Hall shop and behind Rand Hall along University Ave. Over the years, the dragons have taken on various forms, sometimes incorporating moving elements, like wings, scales, and heads. Part of the dragon is mounted on a stripped car chassis, which is steered by a student. Dragon Day 2018 (Class of 2022) currently holds the record for the longest dragon, measuring approximately 140 feet.
Dragon Day : History of Dragon Day 2008 Dragon Day slide shows on alumni.cornell 2007 Dragon Day slide shows on alumni.cornell 2006 Dragon Day slide shows on alumni.cornell 2005 Dragon Day slide shows on alumni.cornell 2007 Cornell Daily Sun Dragon Day Article 2008 Dragon Day YouTube video Dragon Day group on Flickr Gallery of Dragons on Flickr
Dragon Drive : Dragon Drive (ドラゴンドライブ, Doragon Doraibu) is a Japanese manga by Kenichi Sakura published by Shueisha and serialized in the manga magazine Monthly Shōnen Jump. Publication ended in 2006, with a total of 14 volumes. Dragon Drive follows lazy junior high school student Reiji Ozora who routinely gives up on everything he starts and is terrible at his school work. Tired of seeing him give up at everything and continue to perform so poorly at school, his childhood friend Maiko Yukino shows Reiji the virtual reality game called Dragon Drive. It is a fighting game in which players and their dragon partners face off within a virtual reality city. Reiji's general lazy personality and lackluster school performances lead him to gain a seemingly equally lazy small dragon whom he calls Chibi. Only later do both of their true strengths show as Chibi, despite being small and sleeping in his first appearance, turns out to be the rarest dragon in the game, a discovery which leads Reiji and his friends to another world called Rikyu. An anime adaptation by Madhouse directed by Toshifumi Kawase and written by Toshiki Inoue aired on TV Tokyo from July 4, 2002 to March 27, 2003 for a total of 38 episodes. The franchise also spawned three video games, being Dragon Drive: Tactics Break for the PlayStation, Dragon Drive: World D Break for the Game Boy Advance, and Dragon Drive: D-Masters Shot on GameCube. In North America, Viz Media acquired the rights to distribute the Dragon Drive manga and the anime series was released by Bandai Entertainment.
Dragon Drive : Reiji Ozora is a chronic quitter who never completes what's assigned or handed to him, but one day Maiko, his closest friend, walks him to a local arcade where the latest game craze is happening: Dragon Drive. After meeting Chibi, a seemingly meek dragon, Reiji wants to make himself and Chibi stronger. To obtain this strength, both are taken to a secret training room in the "D-Zone", the same room Maiko and Daisuke snuck in earlier upon seeing a strange dragon appearing in the sky. The dragon suddenly absorbs them into another Earth known as Rikyu, where they meet Meguru, a girl who was also transported to Rikyu. There, the elder of the village reveals the intentions RI-ON, the group behind Dragon Drive, have trying to obtain the Jinryuuseki stone, which grants its welder the power to control all dragons in Rikyu. RI-ON conspires the children to be used as their soldiers. Should they succeed, both Rikyu and Earth will be destroyed. This is where Chibi, who is actually the legendary dragon Senkoukura, the savior of Rikyu, and Reiji become important to both worlds. In order to protect both worlds, Reiji and Chibi must enter the Dragonic Heaven tournament, where RI-ON has already sent for an agent to enter, and win the Jinryuuseki stone. Remembering that Agent L is an employee of RI-ON, the one who helped him through his first few games, Reiji is polarized between both sides, believing the elder and Meguru's testimonies while skeptical of the alleged foul intentions of Agent L or the employees of RI-ON. In the end, he doesn't truly chose either side but instead resolves to fight in order to learn the truth about RI-ON, Rikyu and Dragon Drive. Several years later progress and Maiko's little brother, Takumi, receives severe warnings to never play Dragon Drive. One day while hiding from a storm, he obtains his first set of cards from a strange old man he meets. After receiving his cards, Takumi finds his new calling by showing strong determination and the mysterious ability to talk to dragons, forming a strong friendship with his strongest dragon Raikoo, as he works to help him gain his memories back. After a dream one night, Takumi discovers his dragon is one in ninety-nine special dragon cards, all of which are called Raikoo, that were given to certain players of the game called Raikoo masters. Soon a group going by the name of RI-IN enters the scene, and all the players, with the exception of the ones in the gaming stores vanish, leaving the world in ruins and dragons in their place. Left behind in this rapidly changing world, Takumi, Raikoo, and their new friends must rally the remaining Raikoo masters together in hopes of restoring Earth and bringing the people back. In order to save the world, Rikyu and Earth join to become one, and the dragons disappear completely to become spirits. Twenty-seven years later, the game resurfaces to a new audience while Reiji, Takumi, and their friends live out fruitful lives.
Dragon Drive : Official Shueisha website (in Japanese) Official Madhouse website (in Japanese) Official TV Tokyo website (in Japanese) Dragon Drive at Carddas (in Japanese) Dragon Drive (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Dragon Half : Dragon Half (Japanese: ドラゴンハーフ, Hepburn: Doragon Hāfu) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Ryūsuke Mita. The manga was serialized in Fujimi Shobo's Dragon Magazine from January 30, 1988 to April 30, 1994 and the chapters collected into 7 tankōbon volumes. It was adapted into a 2-episode OVA series animated by Production I.G in 1993. ADV Films had previously licensed the anime series in North America. Discotek Media has since re-licensed the OVAs for a DVD release in 2014. The manga has been licensed in North America by Seven Seas Entertainment. The story follows Mink, a half human/half dragon teenage girl on a quest for a potion which will turn her into a full human so that she can win the love of the legendary dragon slayer/crooner Dick Saucer. In the manga, in order to get the potion, she must slay Azetodeth, the greatest demon in the land. The story is very tongue-in-cheek, and pokes fun at a number of anime clichés, including the overuse of super deformation, across a wide range of genres, similar to anime such as Excel Saga. Much of the manga contains references to role-playing games and occasionally either other manga, or anything that begins with the word dragon. Ryūsuke Mita's favorite animal is the dragon. As a result, several dragons play an important role in the manga, most notably Mana and her father, Titan.
Dragon Half : Mink was born to a man who used to be a skilled swordsman and a female imperial red dragon. At age fifteen, she falls in love with a singer named Dick Saucer, but because he is also a dragonslayer, she has no choice but to get a potion that can change her into a pure human. She can only get the potion, however, if she can slay the most powerful Demon Lord in the land, Azetodeth, and go to his palace known as the Demon King's island. Not only does she have to reconstruct the Gourd of the Saints, an item that can seal Azetodeth, she also has to be aware of Princess Vina, her rival for Saucer's affections. Mink is aided by her friends Lufa, Pia, and a fairy mouse named Mappy on her quest. After a number of adventures, mainly a conflict with a vampire and her four handmaidens and discovering Dick Saucer's past, Mink finally comes face to face with Azetodeth. She manages to seal the Demon Lord away with the Gourd of Saints, and although she gains the potion, she chooses to remain half-human, half-imperial red dragon forever. Instead of using the potion herself, she gives the potion to her friend Lufa, who had been turned into a toad by the Demon Lord's magic.
Dragon Half : Dragon Half (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Dragon king theory : Dragon king is a double metaphor for an event that is both extremely large in size or effect (a "king") and born of unique origins (a "dragon") relative to its peers (other events from the same system). DK events are generated by or correspond to mechanisms such as positive feedback, tipping points, bifurcations, and phase transitions, that tend to occur in nonlinear and complex systems, and serve to amplify Dragon king events to extreme levels. By understanding and monitoring these dynamics, some predictability of such events may be obtained. The dragon king theory was developed by Didier Sornette, who hypothesizes that many crises are in fact DKs rather than black swans, i.e., they may be predictable to some degree. Given the importance of crises to the long-term organization of a variety of systems, the DK theory urges that special attention be given to the study and monitoring of extremes, and that a dynamic view be taken. From a scientific viewpoint, such extremes are interesting because they may reveal underlying, often hidden, organizing principles. Practically speaking, one should study extreme risks, but not forget that significant uncertainty will almost always be present, and should be rigorously considered in decisions regarding risk management and design. The Dragon king theory is related to concepts such as black swan theory, outliers, complex systems, nonlinear dynamics, power laws, extreme value theory, prediction, extreme risks, and risk management.
Dragon king theory : A black swan can be considered a metaphor for an event that is surprising (to the observer), has a major effect, and, after being observed, is rationalized in hindsight. The theory of black swans is epistemological, relating to the limited knowledge and understanding of the observer. The term was introduced and popularized by Nassim Taleb and has been associated with concepts such as heavy tails, non-linear payoffs, model error, and even Knightian uncertainty, whose "unknowable unknown" event terminology was popularized by former United States Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. Taleb claims that black swan events are not predictable, and in practice, the theory encourages one to "prepare rather than predict", and limit one's exposure to extreme fluctuations. The black swan concept is important and poses a valid criticism of people, firms, and societies that are irresponsible in the sense that they are overly confident in their ability to anticipate and manage risk. However, claiming that extreme events are—in general—unpredictable may also lead to a lack of accountability in risk management roles. In fact, it is known that in a wide range of physical systems that extreme events are predictable to some degree. One simply needs to have a sufficiently deep understanding of the structure and dynamics of the focal system, and the ability to monitor it. This is the domain of the dragon kings. Such events have been referred to as "grey swans" by Taleb. A more rigorous distinction between black swans, grey swans, and dragon kings is difficult as black swans are not precisely defined in physical and mathematical terms. However, technical elaboration of concepts in the Black Swan book are elaborated in the Silent Risk document. An analysis of the precise definition of a black swan in a risk management context was written by professor Terje Aven.
Dragon king theory : It is well known that many phenomena in both the natural and social sciences have power law statistics (Pareto distribution). Furthermore, from extreme value theory, it is known that a broad range of distributions (the Frechet class) have tails that are asymptotically power law. The result of this is that, when dealing with crises and extremes, power law tails are the "normal" case. The unique property of power laws is that they are scale-invariant, self-similar and fractal. This property implies that all events—both large and small—are generated by the same mechanism, and thus there will be no distinct precursors by which the largest events may be predicted. A well-known conceptual framework for events of this type is self-organized criticality. Such concepts are compatible with the theory of the black swan. However Taleb has also stated that considering the power law as a model instead of a model with lighter tails (e.g., a Gaussian) "converts black swans into gray ones", in the sense that the power law model gives non-negligible probability to large events. In a variety of studies it has been found that, despite the fact that a power law models the tail of the empirical distribution well, the largest events are significantly outlying (i.e., much larger than what would be expected under the model). Such events are interpreted as dragon kings as they indicate a departure from the generic process underlying the power law. Examples of this include the largest radiation release events occurring in nuclear power plant accidents, the largest city (agglomeration) within the sample of cities in a country, the largest crashes in financial markets, and intraday wholesale electricity prices.
Dragon king theory : Physically speaking, dragon kings may be associated with the regime changes, bifurcations, and tipping points of complex out-of-equilibrium systems. For instance, the catastrophe (fold bifurcation) of the global ecology illustrated in the figure could be considered to be a dragon king: Many observers would be surprised by such a dramatic change of state. However, it is well known that in dynamic systems, there are many precursors as the system approaches the catastrophe. Positive feedback is also a mechanism that can spawn dragon kings. For instance, in a stampede the number of cattle running increases the level of panic which causes more cattle to run, and so on. In human dynamics such herding and mob behavior has also been observed in crowds, stock markets, and so on (see herd behavior). The role of positive feedback loops in dragon king formation is well documented, particularly in oscillatory and cascading networks. Such a system periodically reaches a tipping point, becoming unstable and triggering a self-amplifying cascade of cascades, leading to a dragon king. Dragon kings are also caused by attractor bubbling in coupled oscillator systems. Attractor bubbling is a generic behavior appearing in networks of coupled oscillators where the system typically orbits in an invariant manifold with a chaotic attractor (where the peak trajectories are low), but is intermittently pushed (by noise) into a region where orbits are locally repelled from the invariant manifold (where the peak trajectories are large). These excursions form the dragon kings, as illustrated in the figure. It is claimed that such models can describe many real phenomena such as earthquakes, brain activity, etc. A block and spring mechanical model, considered as a model of geological faults and their earthquake dynamics, produced a similar distribution. It could also be the case that dragon kings are created as a result of system control or intervention. That is, trying to suppress the release of stress or death in dynamic complex systems may lead to an accumulation of stress or a maturation towards instability. For instance, brush/forest fires are a natural occurrence in many areas. Such fires are inconvenient and thus we may wish that they are diligently extinguished. This leads to long periods without inconvenient fires, however, in the absence of fires, dead wood accumulates. Once this accumulation reaches a critical point, and a fire starts, the fire becomes so large that it cannot be controlled—a singular event that could be considered to be a dragon king. Other policies, such as doing nothing (allowing for small fires to occur naturally), or performing strategic controlled burning, would avoid enormous fires by allowing for frequent small ones. Another example is monetary policy. Quantitative easing programs and low interest rate policies are common, with the intention of avoiding recessions, promoting growth, etc. However, such programs build instability by increasing income inequality, keeping weak firms alive, and inflating asset bubbles. Ultimately such policies, aimed at smoothing out economic fluctuations, will enable an enormous correction—a dragon king. As discussed in the previous section, dragon kings often arise in systems where other events follow a power law distribution. Mechanisms generating power laws are well-studied under the framework of self-organized criticality (SOC). Many systems exhibiting dragon kings alongside power laws can be understood by how their dynamics differ from pure SOC. SOC typically involves self-organization (SO) around a continuous absorbing-state phase transition (ASPT), where SO refers to an emergent balance between external driving and internal dissipation, and ASPT marks a transition between active and inactive (absorbing) phases. If this phase transition is first-order (discontinuous), it produces hysteresis, leading to large dragon king events. Even continuous transitions, which typically result in SOC, can enter regimes that produce dragon kings, depending on the nuances of the driving and dissipation. The figure on the right illustrates the taxonomy of dragon kings based on this classification: Set A includes all dragon kings, while sets B and C distinguish between those with self-organization near continuous and discontinuous transitions. Sets D and E further focus on cases with specifically absorbing-state transitions.
Dragon king theory : Dragon kings are outliers by definition. However, when calling DKs outliers there is an important proviso: In standard statistics outliers are typically erroneous values and are discarded, or statistical methods are chosen that are somehow insensitive to outliers. Contrariwise, DKs are outliers that are highly informative, and should be the focus of much statistical attention. Thus a first step is identifying DKs in historical data. Existing tests are either based on the asymptotic properties of the empirical distribution function (EDF) or on an assumption about the underlying cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the data. It turns out that testing for outliers relative to an exponential distribution is very general. The latter follows from the Pickands–Balkema–de Haan theorem of extreme value theory which states that a wide range of distributions asymptotically (above high thresholds) have exponential or power law tails. As an aside, this is one explanation why power law tails are so common when studying extremes. To finish the point, since the natural logarithm of a power law tail is exponential, one can take the logarithm of power law data and then test for outliers relative to an exponential tail. There are many test statistics and techniques for testing for outliers in an exponential sample. An inward test sequentially tests the largest point, then the second largest, and so on, until the first test that is not rejected (i.e., the null hypothesis that the point is not an outlier is not rejected). The number of rejected tests identifies the number of outliers. For instance, where x ( 1 ) > x ( 2 ) > ⋯ > x ( n ) >x_>\cdots >x_ is the sorted sample, the inward robust test uses the test statistic T r , m = x ( r ) / ( x ( m ) + ⋯ + x ( n ) ) =x_/(x_+\cdots +x_) where r is the point being tested ( r = 1 , 2 , 3 , … )  , and r < m < n  where m is the pre-specified maximum number of outliers. At each step the p-value for the test statistic must be computed and, if lower than some level, the test rejected. This test has many desirable properties: It does not require that the number of outliers be specified, it is not prone to under (masking) and over (swamping) estimation of the number outliers, it is easy to implement, and the test is independent of the value of the parameter of the exponential tail.
Dragon king theory : How one models and predicts dragon kings depends on the underlying mechanism. However, the common approach will require continuous monitoring of the focal system and comparing measurements with a (non-linear or complex) dynamic model. It has been proposed that the more homogeneous the system, and the stronger its interactions, the more predictable it will be. For instance, in non-linear systems with phase transitions at a critical point, it is well known that a window of predictability occurs in the neighborhood of the critical point due to precursory signs: the system recovers more slowly from perturbations, autocorrelation changes, variance increases, spatial coherence increases, etc. These properties have been used for prediction in many applications ranging from changes in the bio-sphere to rupture of pressure tanks on the Ariane rocket. The applications to a wide rage of phenomena have stimulated the complex systems perspective, which is a trans-disciplinary approach and do not depend on the first-principles understanding. For the phenomena of unsustainable growth (e.g., of populations or stock prices), one can consider a growth model that features a finite time singularity, which is a critical point where the growth regime changes. In systems that are discrete scale invariant such a model is power law growth, decorated with a log-periodic function. Fitting this model on the growth data (non-linear regression) allows for the prediction of the singularity, i.e., the end of unsustainable growth. This has been applied to many problems, for instance: rupture in materials, earthquakes, and the growth and burst of bubbles in financial markets An interesting dynamic to consider, that may reveal the development of a block-buster success, is epidemic phenomena: e.g., the spread of plague, viral phenomena in media, the spread of panic and volatility in stock markets, etc. In such a case, a powerful approach is to decompose activity/fluctuations into exogeneous and endogeneous parts, and learn about the endogenous dynamics that may lead to highly influential bursts in activity.
Dragon king theory : Dragon kings form special kinds of events leading to extreme risks (which can also be opportunities). That extreme risks are important and should be self-evident. Natural disasters provide many examples (e.g., asteroid impacts leading to extinction). Some statistical examples of the effect of extremes are that: the largest nuclear power plant accident (Chernobyl disaster) had a roughly equal damage cost(as measured by estimated US dollar cost) as all (+- 175) other historical nuclear accidents together, the largest 10 percent of private data breaches from organizations accounts for 99 percent of the total breached private information, the largest five epidemics since 1900 caused 20 times the fatalities of the remaining 1363, etc. In general such statistics arrive in the presence of heavy-tailed distributions, and the presence of dragon kings will augment the already oversized effect of extreme events. Despite the importance of extreme events, due to ignorance, misaligned incentives, and cognitive biases, there is often a failure to adequately anticipate them. Technically speaking, this leads to poorly specified models where distributions that are not heavy-tailed enough, and under-appreciate both serial and multivariate dependence of extreme events. Some examples of such failures in risk assessment include the use of Gaussian models in finance (Black–Scholes, the Gaussian copula, LTCM), the use of Gaussian processes and linear wave theory failing to predict the occurrence of rogue waves, the failure of economic models in general to predict the financial crisis of 2007–2008, and the under-appreciation of external events, cascades, and nonlinear effects in probabilistic risk assessment, leading to not anticipating the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011. Such influential failures emphasize the importance of the study of extremes.
Dragon king theory : The dragon king concept raises many questions about how one can deal with risk. Of course, if possible, exposure to large risks should be avoided (often referred to as the "black swan approach"). However, in many developments, exposure to risk is a necessity, and a trade-off between risk and return needs to be navigated. In an adaptive system, where prediction of dragon kings is successful, one can act to defend the system or even profit. How to design such resilient systems, as well as their real time risk monitoring systems, is an important and interdisciplinary problem where dragon kings must be considered. On another note, when it comes to the quantification of risk in a given system (whether it be a bank, an insurance company, a dike, a bridge, or a socio-economic system), risk needs to be accounted for over a period, such as annually. Typically one is interested in statistics such as the annual probability of loss or damage in excess of some value (value at risk), other tail risk measures, and return periods. To provide such risk characterizations, the dynamic dragon kings must be reasoned about in terms of annual frequency and severity statistics. These frequency and severity statistics can then be brought together in a model such as a compound Poisson process. Provided that the statistical properties of the system are consistent over time (stationary), frequency and severity statistics may be constructed based on past observations, simulations, and/or assumptions. If not, one may only construct scenarios. However, in any case, given the uncertainty present, a range of scenarios should be considered. Due to the shortage of data for extreme events, the principle of parsimony, and theoretical results from extreme value theory about universal tail models, one typically relies on a generalized Pareto distribution (GPD) tail model. However such a model excludes DKs. Thus, when one has sufficient reason to believe that Dragon kings are present, or if one simply wants to consider a scenario, one may e.g., consider a density mixture of a GPD and a density for the DK regime. == References ==
The Dragon (poem) : "The Dragon", by the Iraqi poet Abd al-Wahhab Al-Bayyati (1926–1999), was originally published in 1996. The translation by Farouk Abdel Wahab, Najat Rahman, and Carolina Hotchandani is from the volume Iraqi Poetry Today (ISBN 0-9533824-6-X) (c) 2003, edited by Saadi Simawe. "The Dragon" is an example of al-Bayyati's frequent incorporation of mythological figures into his poetry. Critics have interpreted the poem as addressed to Saddam Hussein.
The Dragon (poem) : Iraqi literature 1996 in poetry
The Dragon (poem) : Text of "The Dragon" with commentary and links == References ==
Dragonaut: The Resonance : Dragonaut: The Resonance (Japanese: ドラゴノーツ -ザ・レゾナンス-, Hepburn: Doragonōtsu -Za Rezonansu-) is a Japanese anime television series directed by Manabu Ono and co-produced by Gonzo and Nihon Ad Systems (NAS). It was broadcast for 25 episodes on TV Tokyo from October 2007 to March 2008. An additional original video animation (OVA) episode was released in 2009. In North America, the series was licensed by Funimation. A manga adaptation by Satoshi Kinoshita was serialized in Shueisha's shōnen manga magazine Jump Square from November 2007 to April 2008, with its six chapters collected in a single tankōbon volume.
Dragonaut: The Resonance : Twenty years prior to the story's beginning, an asteroid headed for Earth destroys Pluto. Due to Pluto's destruction, the asteroid, which is dubbed Thanatos, becomes temporarily stagnant in Pluto's orbit. Now, in order to avoid Earth's impending destruction, the International Solarsystem Development Agency (ISDA) works on the "D-Project", and secretly creates weapons called "Dragons" after finding a dragon egg under the ocean. However, they soon find out that the asteroid is not their only threat, as powerful, destructive dragons from Thanatos appear on Earth. After witnessing what looks like a murder by a strange creature, Jin Kamishina, a lonely 18-year-old boy who lost his family in a shuttle accident two years ago, gets involved with the ISDA and their efforts to battle the dragons from Thanatos. Helping him is Toa, a mysterious girl who saves him from falling to his death after the creature attacks him. As they delve deeper into the mysteries of the dragons, they encounter new friends and enemies, and also develop a closer relationship.
Dragonaut: The Resonance : The original concept of Dragonaut: The Resonance was developed by Nihon Ad Systems (NAS). NAS and Gonzo studios, which produced anime series such as Last Exile and Brave Story, co-produced the series, along with a subsidiary of Konami, Konami Digital Entertainment. On March 24, 2007, at the International Anime Fair in Tokyo, the first promotional image for the anime series was revealed. In addition, series' director Manabu Ono, and two of the series' voice actors, Daisuke Ono and Minori Chihara, attended the fair in order to promote the series. At the time, the complete cast for the anime was not yet assembled as the anime was still in the development stage. In fact, Manabu Ono expected that the series would continue being developed on, even after it begins broadcast in October 2007. While a majority of series designs are done in 2D animation, the mechanics of the dragons and their corresponding battles are done in 3D computer graphics. However, the dragon battles are the only confrontations done in CG, as character fights are in 2D since the director believes that highspeed character movements are best expressed in that form.
Dragonaut: The Resonance : Both of the first two DVD collections released in North America by Funimation have been reviewed. The reviews have generally run from average to above average. The first DVD collection (episodes 1–13) was reviewed by Chris Beveridge of Mania.com, who gave it an overall grade of "C+". Theron Martin of Anime News Network awarded grades from "D+" (story) to "B+" (music). The second DVD collection (episodes 14–26) was reviewed by Chris Beveridge, who gave it an overall grade of "C". Theron Martin awarded grades from "B−" (story) to "B+" (music).
Dragonaut: The Resonance : Official website (in Japanese) Official website at Funimation Dragonaut: The Resonance (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Dragons 3D : Dragons 3D (also known as Dragons: Real Myths and Unreal Creatures - 2D/3D) is a 2013 short 3D film for IMAX and Giant Screen Theaters. The movie was directed and written by Marc Fafard, and stars Max von Sydow as a dream therapist trying to help a young woman who has frequent nightmares about dragons. Dragons 3D is filmed in a docu-fictional approach and utilizes computer-generated imagery to explore the legends and science surrounding dragons from countries such as China, Japan, Mesopotamia, and the United Kingdom. Of the film, Leboeuf commented that she found the cultural differences between the various depictions of dragons interesting, especially as she saw that many anthropologists didn't have a fully satisfactory answer as to their ongoing popularity in modern-day society. Max von Sydow echoed these statements and added that he had been interested in dragons and mythology since childhood, as he learned about various different folklores from his father, who worked as an ethnologist.
Dragons 3D : Skye Ingram (Laurence Leboeuf) has had frequent nightmares about dragons, to the point where it's interfering with her daily life. Because of this, she decides to seek help from Dr. Alistair Conis (Max von Sydow), an eccentric dream therapist and expert on dragons. As the pair works together to uncover what is triggering Skye's distress, they recount the various stories about dragons and their connections to various facets of human and natural society, such as history, literature, national identity, and art. Their work is eventually discovered by Dr. Vulnet Grazinar (Serge Houde), Dr. Conis' nemesis.
Dragons 3D : Max von Sydow as Dr. Alistair Conis Laurence Leboeuf as Skye Ingram Serge Houde as Dr. Vulnet Grazinar
Dragons 3D : La Presse gave Dragons 3D three stars, praising it for its visual aspects while commenting that the film did not work as well on the narrative level, while stating that it was overall a good film with "several spectacular sequences". The Metro News gave an overall favorable review, stating that it would be a good film for younger viewers. In contrast, The Davis Clipper gave it one and a half stars, also praising the movie's visuals while criticizing the film for not making more of an effort to tie in the dragons' mythology into their historical context or provide an analysis or sociological framework.
Dragons 3D : Official website Dragons 3D at IMDb
Drive By (Flight of the Conchords) : "Drive By" is the seventh episode of the HBO comedy series Flight of the Conchords. The episode first aired in the United States on Sunday, July 29, 2007.
Drive By (Flight of the Conchords) : A sidewalk fruit vendor, Sinjay (Aziz Ansari), refuses Bret and Jemaine service due to the fact that they are New Zealanders. He disinfects the fruit they touch, and they leave empty handed. They visit the consulate for a band meeting, where Bret is clearly upset about the incident. There they meet Jessica (Joan Hess), the pretty blonde tech support lady who is upgrading the consulate's computers from aging VIC-20s to newer IBM PCs. After she leaves, Murray tells the band that he is in love with her. Bret asks Murray about his wife, Shelley, and Murray reminds them that they are separated. Bret receives a package from home — his favorite cardboard box — and Murray lends them a tape of New Zealand TV shows that he received from his mother. At their apartment, the pair discuss the incident while they watch some of the recorded shows on Murray's tape. One of the shows is episode six of a children's program called "Albi The Racist Dragon". Bret, still upset about the vendor's attitude, watches from the comfort of his cardboard box. At Mohumbhai & Son, Bret and Jemaine consult Dave about the racism they experienced. Dave informs them of the great amount of "prejudism" against the English that exists in America. Ignoring their insistence that they are not English, Dave admits that even he hates them sometimes. A montage of scenes follow in which we see Jemaine and Bret being jostled on the street, being denied entry to a nightclub, getting cheated by a hot dog vendor, and being forced to ride at the back of a bus. They try once more to buy fruit from Sinjay but are chased off again. The frustrated pair ride off on their bicycles singing "Mutha Uckas". At another band meeting, Murray fakes a computer problem in order to see Jessica again. He asks the band to help him with a love song he is writing for her (so far he has written one word — "Hi" — which Jemaine admits is better than he expected). Back at their place, Bret, Jemaine and Dave try to come up with ideas for dealing with Sinjay. Dave suggests that they frame him for murder by poisoning his fruit, but settles for merely teaching Bret and Jemaine how to "flip the bird". After Sinjay escalates the conflict by nailing a kiwi fruit to their door, the boys storm to his fruit stand to confront him. They furiously flip him the bird and chastise him for his racism. However they soon realize that he has New Zealanders and Australians mixed up, and it is actually Australians that he hates. Realizing his mistake, the vendor apologizes and gives them some free fruit. Back at the consulate, Murray learns from Greg that Jessica is gone, as her upgrade work is complete. A despondent Murray sings "Leggy Blonde" to his lost love. Over the end credits, we see shots of Bret, Jemaine and Sinjay flipping the bird to the guard at the Australian consulate.
Drive By (Flight of the Conchords) : We learn that Murray is married, which explains the wedding ring that he has been wearing in the preceding episodes. We discover that Dave is of Indian descent, as is Arj Barker, the actor who plays him. This is the only episode of the series in which Kristen Schaal (Mel) does not appear.
Drive By (Flight of the Conchords) : The following songs are featured in this episode:
Drive By (Flight of the Conchords) : The first TV show we see them watch on Murray's video tape is A Dog's Show. This is a real New Zealand television show from the 1980s that broadcast sheepdog trial competitions. After this, we hear an ad for What Have You Done to My House?, another TV show. This show is fictional, but satirizes a number of shows with the same premise. In the advertisement for the New Zealand's Library telephone service, the man (Taika Waititi — the writer and director of this episode) asks to reserve the new Gipsy Kings album. The Gipsy Kings are a French band. Dave makes reference to the film Escape from Alcatraz.
Drive By (Flight of the Conchords) : The scenes during the song "Mutha Uckers" with Bret and Jemaine on bicycles were filmed on Ludlow Street, between Canal Street and Hester Street in Manhattan. The bicycle-bouncing shots were filmed nearby at the Worth St end of Columbus Park. Bret and Jemaine confront Sinjay with their "offensive hand gestures" on the corner of Mosco Street and Mulberry Street in front of Columbus Park. == References ==
Empire of Ivory : Empire of Ivory is the fourth novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. Set in Africa, the novel follows William Laurence and his dragon Temeraire's search for a cure to the disease that has paralyzed the dragon community. Novik visited southern Africa in search of places in the fourth novel. Empire of Ivory was released in paperback in North America by Del Ray on September 25, 2007. The British hardcover edition was published by Voyager on November 5, 2007.
Empire of Ivory : Laurence and Temeraire arrive back in the United Kingdom, following their evacuation of Danzig in Black Powder War. Their relief at arriving safely is short-lived as Napoleon continues his preparations for an invasion of the British Isles. When questioned about the lack of British air support for the Prussians, Laurence discovers that Britain had no dragons to spare: a flu-like epidemic has infected the greater part of them, and British science has yet to devise a cure. To combat it, Temeraire, Iskierka and the ferals are forced to fly frantic patrols, both as a show of force and to prevent Napoleon from getting reconnaissance in over the contaminated coverts; at one point Temeraire is forced to knock a French courier-dragon, Sauvignon, out of the sky and down into one of the coverts, risking infection himself. Temeraire and Laurence continue to develop their notions of draconic equality in British society and find common cause with William Wilberforce and the abolitionist movement in exchange for assistance from prominent political leaders. Before they can continue their plans, they are enlisted to return to Africa to seek a cure for the draconic flu, which Temeraire caught and was cured of in Throne of Jade; his immunity is proven when he fails to contract the illness from Sauvignon and the other dragons. The entire formation is shipped to the Cape Colony aboard the Allegiance, along with a black missionary, Rev. Josiah Erasmus, formerly of the Lunda people, his wife Hannah and their daughters. The missionaries are manumitted slaves, causing tension between Laurence and Allegiance captain Tom Riley, a staunch supporter of the slave trade and occasional friend of Laurence. Riley is also further thrown off balance by the discovery that some of the Aerial Corps' officers, including Lily's captain Catherine Harcourt, are women (the acid-spitting Longwing breed, along with a few others, refuse to accept male handlers). After several weeks of searching, the formation makes land at the Cape of Good Hope; Maximus, the Regal Copper, is so weary that his handler Berkley does not believe he will ever return home. However, enough fungi are found to cure the formation, and with the help of two African boys, Demane and Sipho, and their small dog, they set out to find more. In the end, they discover the fungus in a cave, being fertilized by dragon dung: it has been deliberately cultivated. Scarcely has this realization set in that the Aerial Corps are beset by Tswana humans and dragons; the British beasts, who have been sent back to the Cape with their precious cargo, are unable to prevent their aircrews from being captured, and Rev. Erasmus' attempts to intercede only lead to his death, as the Lunda are known slavers. The British contingent is taken captive and brought back to the Tswana capitol, a settlement at Mosi-oa-Tunya (what is today called Victoria Falls) for imprisonment and interrogation. This is particularly challenging to Harcourt, who had become intimate with Riley during the voyage and is now bearing his child. Hannah Erasmus, taken from the Tswana some twenty years ago, is of particular importance during their captivity: not only is she able to provide some intercession for the British, but her word is given extra weight by Kefentse, her dragon ancestor who is overjoyed to have her back. The Tswana, in addition to being fiercely offended by the depredations of the African slave trade on their people, practice a form of ancestor worship in which dragons are brought up to believe they are the reincarnations of former (human) leaders. This makes their resistance to the slave trade even fiercer since dragons are deeply possessive of those humans they consider their own. Though Laurence is able to establish some small rapport with Prince Moshueshue and apologize for the mushroom theft, the ancestors Mokhachane and Kefentse remained unconvinced by the mere words of Laurence. Temeraire, who has picked up some Xhosa from Demane and Sipho, is able to talk the location of Mosi-oa-Tunya out of some feral dragons, and he, Dulcia and Lily organize an escape for their crews. But before they have managed to return to the Cape, the Tswana are already on overrunning the Colony, and indeed all European ports on the African coast. Lily's formation retreats to Great Britain aboard the Allegiance; whilst at sea, Riley marries Catherine Harcourt, more at his insistence than hers. Upon returning to Britain, they discover that the latest abolitionist bill in Parliament was defeated by strong opposition from Admiral Horatio Nelson and that Sauvignon, now infected with the plague, has "escaped" back to France. Laurence and Temeraire are horrified to realize that Government and Admiralty alike have countenanced the wholesale slaughter of, not only every French dragon but quite probably every dragon in Eurasia. Acting on their consciences, they steal a tub of cultivated mushrooms and fly the English Channel to deliver the cure to the French. For this, they earn the personal respect of Napoleon Bonaparte, but Laurence turns down the Emperor's offer of asylum, preferring to return to his beloved Commonwealth and answer for his treason.
Empire of Ivory : Empire of Ivory title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Picture album of author Naomi Novik's research photographs from Africa.
Fantasmic! : Fantasmic! is a nighttime show at Disneyland and Disney's Hollywood Studios. The show formerly operated at Tokyo DisneySea. It features fireworks, characters, live actors, water effects, pyrotechnics, lasers, music, audio-animatronics, searchlights, decorated boat floats, and mist screen projections. The narrative of Fantasmic! is a voyage through Mickey Mouse's imagination that culminates in a battle against the Disney Villains. Fantasmic! originated at Disneyland in 1992 after Walt Disney Creative Entertainment was asked to create a nighttime spectacular involving water and fireworks to reinvigorate the space in front of the Rivers of America. The area was reworked, including terracing the walkways to accommodate viewing and modifying part of Tom Sawyer Island to allow the show's staged live action segments. The producers employed the resources of Walt Disney Imagineering and Walt Disney Animation Studios. A second version featuring new scenes opened at Disney's Hollywood Studios in 1998, and a third version premiered at Tokyo DisneySea in 2011, replacing BraviSEAmo!. An updated version of Disneyland's Fantasmic! debuted in 2017, featuring a re-recorded soundtrack in addition to new scenes, lighting, choreography and costumes. A third version premiered at Disneyland in 2022 with new clouded lasers and searchlights in the viewing area. A revamped version premiered at Disney's Hollywood Studios in 2022 with new scenes and special effects. After a fire destroyed the animatronic dragon in April 2023, a fourth version premiered at Disneyland in May 2024 with a new Maleficent and Sorcerer Mickey battle sequence.
Fantasmic! : Fantasmic! takes place on the waters of the Rivers of America at Disneyland and on a stage across the waterway on Tom Sawyer Island.
Fantasmic! : Fantasmic! debuted at Tokyo DisneySea on April 28, 2011, replacing the BraviSEAmo! show in the Mediterranean Harbor. The show was originally planned to debut on April 23 with the park's 10th Anniversary "Be Magical!" celebration, but was delayed by the Great East Japan Earthquake in the previous month. Originally, Fantasmic! was planned in 2001 for the park and the story would be themed around Tokyo DisneySea but was scrapped and instead DisneySea Symphony debuted. It is said that of the barges were reused from Tokyo DisneySea's former nighttime Christmas show "Candelight Reflections", but were reimagined. The Christmas tree barge was used for Mickey's sorcerer hat. This barge would also be used for Tokyo DisneySea's former nighttime Christmas show "Colors of Christmas" (2012–2019). While it hasn't been confirmed, one could assume this could be true if you study the barge bases very carefully. Also, the natural gas line in the harbor and 5 water cannons originally used for BraviSEAmo! were also repurposed. Many don't know that the natural gas line was installed during the construction of the park for the original planned version of Fantasmic! that would’ve debuted in 2001. The show's score was recorded by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra at Abbey Road Studios, composed by Don L. Harper, featuring Bruce Healey's theme from the original Fantasmic! at the US parks. The DisneySea version has new scenes and narrative elements, including scenes based on Aladdin, Finding Nemo, and Cinderella, and the original new song "Imagination". This is the only version of Fantasmic! to not have a stationary stage, with the show taking place entirely on barges. All of the characters' dialogue and sung parts were recorded in Japanese by the characters' respective Japanese voice artists. This version of Fantasmic! was directed by Steven Davidson and because of this, he implemented technologies used in Disney California Adventure's World of Color nighttime spectacular. 5 of the 6 barges were equipped with World of Color-style water fountains. One central, underwater water screen nozzle was installed under the harbor, as well as the 4 moving barges were equipped with water screens as well. This created that large-style water screen used in World of Color. The show itself seems like a hybrid version of Fantasmic! and World of Color. This concept would later be used in some form for Disneyland's renewal version in 2017 as it drew lots of inspiration from Tokyo DisneySea's version. This version of Fantasmic! closed on February 29, 2020. It was originally scheduled to conclude its run on March 25 and then close on March 26, but was moved up due to the extended closure of Tokyo Disney Resort in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan. Sometime in late March 2020, guests staying at the Hotel MiraCosta spotted all the barges out in Mediterranean Harbor in the late morning/afternoon. The entertainment department decided to do a full run through of the show in broad daylight without any performers. This was most likely done to allow barge drivers a final chance to perform their routines before retiring the show completely. Fantasmic! was replaced by an all-new nighttime spectacular called Believe! Sea of Dreams, debuting on November 11, 2022. A few months after the end of Fantasmic!, the former hat barge was lifted out of the water and placed on a small area of the original dry dock (behind Soaring A Fantastic Flight show building). The hat itself was dismantled, along with old equipment. The base was then refurbished for its new role in Believe! Sea of Dreams.
Fantasmic! : The soundtrack for the original Disneyland show was included in the 2015 release of Walt Disney Records The Legacy Collection: Disneyland.
Fantasmic! : World of Color
Fantasmic! : Fantasmic! at Disneyland Fantasmic! at Disney's Hollywood Studios
The Farthest Shore : The Farthest Shore is a fantasy novel by the American author Ursula K. Le Guin, first published by Atheneum in 1972. It is the third book in the series commonly called the Earthsea Cycle. As the next Earthsea novel, Tehanu, would not be released until 1990, The Farthest Shore is sometimes referred to as the final book in the so-called Earthsea trilogy, beginning with A Wizard of Earthsea and The Tombs of Atuan. Decades later, The Farthest Shore follows the wizard Ged in his final adventure. The Farthest Shore won the 1973 National Book Award in category Children's Books. Studio Ghibli's animated film Tales from Earthsea was based primarily on this novel.
The Farthest Shore : An ominous, inexplicable malaise is spreading throughout Earthsea. Magic is losing its power; songs are being forgotten; people and animals are sickening or going mad. Accompanied by Arren, the young Prince of Enlad, the Archmage Ged leaves Roke Island to find the cause. On his boat Lookfar, they sail south to Hort Town, where they encounter a drug addled wizard called Hare. They realize that Hare and many others are under the dream-spell of a powerful wizard who promises them life after death at the cost of their magic, their identity, and all names, that is, all reality. Ged and Arren continue southwest to the island of Lorbanery, once famous for its dyed silk, but the magic of dyeing has been lost and the local people are listless and hostile. Fleeing the stifling despair, Ged and Arren keep on southwest to the furthest islands of the Reaches. Arren is drawn under the influence of the dark wizard, and when Ged is injured by hostile islanders, Arren cannot rouse himself to help. As Ged's life ebbs, and they drift into the open ocean, where they are saved by the Raft People, nomads who live on great rafts beyond any land. The spreading evil has not yet reached them, and they nurse Ged and Arren back to health. At the midwinter festival, the sickness arrives, and the singers are struck dumb, unable to remember the songs. The dragon Orm Embar arrives on the wind, and begs Ged to sail to Selidor, the westernmost of all islands, where the dark wizard is destroying the dragons, beings who embody magic. Ged and Arren voyage past the Dragons' Run south of Selidor, encountering dragons flying about and devouring each other in a state of madness. On Selidor, Orm Embar is waiting for them, but he too has lost the power of speech. After a search, they find the wizard in a house of dragon bones at the western tip of Selidor – the end of the world. Ged recognises the wizard as Cob, a dark mage whom he defeated many years before. After his defeat, Cob became expert in the dark arts of necromancy, desperate to escape death and live forever. In doing so, he has opened a breach between worlds which is sucking away all life. As Cob paralyzes Ged with the staff of a long-dead mage, Orm Embar impales himself on it, crushing Cob in a final effort. But the undead Cob cannot be killed, and he crawls back to the Dry Land of the dead, pursued by Ged and Arren. In the Dry Land, Ged manages to defeat Cob and closes the breach in the world, but it requires the sacrifice of all his magic power. They travel even further, crawling over the Mountains of Pain back to the living world, where the eldest dragon Kalessin is waiting. He flies them to Roke, leaving Ged on his childhood home of Gont Island. Arren has fulfilled the centuries-old prediction of the last King of Earthsea: "He shall inherit my throne who has crossed the dark land living and come to the far shores of the day." Arren will reunite the fractious islands as the future King Lebannen (his true name). Le Guin originally offered two endings to the story. In one, after Lebannen's coronation, Ged sails alone out into the ocean and is never heard from again. In the other, Ged returns to the forest of his home island of Gont. In 1990, seventeen years after the publication of The Farthest Shore, Le Guin opted for the second ending when she continued the story in Tehanu.
The Farthest Shore : Cob A sorcerer whom Ged has met before. Ged Archmage of Roke. Called Sparrowhawk. Kalessin The eldest dragon. Lebannen Young prince of Enlad. The name means "rowan tree" in the Old Speech. Called Arren. Orm Embar A powerful dragon of the West Reach descended from Orm.
The Farthest Shore : Reviewing the novel for a genre audience, Lester del Rey reported that it was "fantasy with a logic of execution that is usually found only in science fiction ... rich in ideas, color and inventions".
The Farthest Shore : The Farthest Shore title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Fire & Blood (novel) : Fire & Blood is a fantasy book by American writer George R. R. Martin and illustrated by Doug Wheatley. It tells the history of House Targaryen, the dynasty that ruled the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros in the backstory of his series A Song of Ice and Fire. Although originally planned for publication after the completion of the series, Martin revealed his intent to publish the history in two volumes as the material had grown too large. The first volume was released on November 20, 2018. The second half of this first volume (an expanded version of The Princess and the Queen) has been adapted into the HBO series House of the Dragon, a prequel to Game of Thrones.
Fire & Blood (novel) : In 2014, more than 200,000 words were removed from the manuscript of Martin's companion book The World of Ice & Fire and were incorporated into Fire & Blood. In February 2017, Elio M. García Jr., Martin's co-author for The World of Ice & Fire, reported that he had spoken with Martin at WorldCon 75, held in 2017 in Helsinki, about the first volume of Fire & Blood. According to García, in addition to the never-published material developed for The World of Ice & Fire, Martin also created entirely new material for the book, having "worked on just fleshing out a bit" the long reign of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, which was previously only mentioned in "Heirs of the Dragon", an unpublished text that Martin abridged to form the novelette The Rogue Prince. On July 22, 2017, Martin revealed on his blog that the material for Fire & Blood had grown so large that the decision had been made to publish the histories of the Targaryen kings in two volumes. The first volume, simply called Fire & Blood, covers the history of Westeros from Aegon's Conquest up to and through the regency of the boy king, Aegon III Targaryen. While the first volume of Fire & Blood has been published, the second volume was largely unwritten as of July 2017. In April 2018, when announcing the publication date, Martin revealed the manuscript to be 989 pages long. An excerpt was revealed in October 2018.
Fire & Blood (novel) : Rather than a novel, Fire & Blood takes the form of a scholarly treatise about the Targaryen dynasty written by a historian within the world of A Song of Ice and Fire, Archmaester Gyldayn. Gyldayn cites a variety of fictional primary sources for the historical events he describes, whose accounts sometimes conflict with each other, reflecting medieval methods of historiography and thus making Gyldayn an unreliable narrator from the reader's perspective. "Aegon's Conquest" describes Aegon I Targaryen's conquest of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. It was published in more or less same version in The World of Ice & Fire. "Reign of the Dragon – The Wars of King Aegon I" and "Three Heads Had the Dragon – Governance Under King Aegon I" follow Aegon I's reign after his Conquest. While his reign is briefly glossed over in The World of Ice & Fire, no parts of the chapters have been published before. "The Sons of the Dragon" focuses on the lives of Aegon I's sons, King Aenys I Targaryen and King Maegor I Targaryen, ending with Maegor's death and the ascension of Aenys's son Jaehaerys I Targaryen to the throne. An abridged novella of the same name was previously released in October 2017 in the anthology The Book of Swords. The long reign of Jaehaerys I Targaryen is described over seven chapters. "Heirs of the Dragon – A Question of Succession" focuses on the succession crisis following the deaths of Jaehaerys' sons and the eventual reign of his grandson Viserys I. The novella The Rogue Prince, previously published in the anthology Rogues in 2014, uses the majority of this text, which was adapted in the first season of HBO's House of the Dragon. "The Dying of the Dragons" is split into six chapters and focuses on the Dance of the Dragons, the succession war between Rhaenyra Targaryen and her younger half-brother Aegon II. An abridged version was included in The Princess and the Queen, which was published in the anthology Dangerous Women in 2013. These chapters form the primary basis of House of the Dragon. "Aftermath – The Hour of the Wolf" describes the aftermath of the Dance and the ascension of Rhaenyra's young son Aegon III to the throne, while the book's four final chapters cover the early period of Aegon III's reign, when the realm was ruled by his regents. Fire & Blood is illustrated in a similar fashion to A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms. The book contains more than seventy-five black and white illustrations by Doug Wheatley.
Fire & Blood (novel) : Fire & Blood received mixed reviews from critics. According to Book Marks, the book received "mixed" reviews based on eight critic reviews with three being "rave" and two being "mixed" and three being "pan". In Books in the Media, a site that aggregates critic reviews of books, the book received a (2.81 out of 5) from the site which was based on eight critic reviews. Hugo Rifkind of The Times described it as "interminable, self-indulgent crap." Roisin O'Connor of The Independent faulted the book for its dry tone and stated that reading it feels like "you've been assigned a mildly interesting, but often tedious, piece of homework". Publishers Weekly stated that "Martin's evocative storytelling style and gift for gripping narrative are mostly absent from this dry history". Conversely, Dan Jones of The Sunday Times praised the book, calling it "a masterpiece of popular historical fiction". Similarly, Chris Lough of Tor.com described the book as "... the best Song of Ice and Fire book in 18 years", a comparison to A Storm of Swords.
Fire & Blood (novel) : The HBO series House of the Dragon, a prequel to Game of Thrones, is based on material from Fire & Blood, which covers the Dance of Dragons civil war. The show is produced by Martin, Vince Gerardis, Ryan Condal, and Miguel Sapochnik (also showrunner).
Firekind : Firekind was a comics strip published in the British weekly anthology comic 2000 AD for 13 issues in 1993. It was written by John Smith, with art by Paul Marshall.
Firekind : Firekind came about as part of the "Spring Fever" promotion at 2000 AD after a change in distribution saw a big drop-off in sales. The assistant editor Alan McKenzie had contacted John Smith and suggested he might want to write a story involving dragons to make up for the lack of fantasy in the comic. According to Smith: when I started to think about it, I realised what a naff proposition the whole thing was. I'd read a few Anne McCaffrey books and she'd pretty much got the whole dragon thing sewn up, so I didn't want to do a rehash of that. I always try to come at things from a different angle, see it from a different perspective, so I though I'd write it as a hard SF story instead. The story was originally serialised in 2000 AD from issues #828 to #840. Part 7, however, which should have appeared in issue #834, was accidentally omitted. According to John Tomlinson, another assistant editor: This was born out of the usual tight deadlines we had on 2000 AD and the original art being kept in the same place as already used pages. Somehow one episode got lost in the mix. Paul Marshall spotted the error but the production staff were running sufficiently far-ahead that they were putting together issue #839 and the missing episode had to be run after the final installment. The story was entirely reprinted in its proper order in 2000 AD Extreme Edition #8 (2005) and 2000 AD: The Ultimate Collection #82 (2020).
Firekind : The self-contained story concerns a human xeno-botanist named Larsen who travels to the alien jungle planet Gennyo-Leil whose atmosphere is a toxic hallucinogen. Though he initially gains the inhabitants' trust, his mission is compromised by the arrival of a merciless gang of mercenary poacher / torturers. But Gennyo-Leil is not without defences... James Cameron's film Avatar, released sixteen years later, has a number of similarities with Firekind.
Firekind : == References ==
The Flight of Dragons (book) : The Flight of Dragons is a 1979 speculative evolution book written by Peter Dickinson and illustrated by Wayne Anderson.
The Flight of Dragons (book) : According to Dickinson's hypothesis, the chief obstacle to admitting the past existence of dragons is the difficulty of powered flight by such a large organism. To resolve this, he introduces a dirigible-like structure in which hydrochloric acid would dissolve large amounts of rapidly growing bone, releasing massive amounts of hydrogen that, once aloft, would support the body above the ground. The dragon's wings are traced to "modifications of the ribcage" (an anatomical evolutionary path shared by the genus Draco), and the expulsion of fire from the throat, as a means of removal of excess gas. The absence of fossil evidence is traced again to the internal acids, which (in Dickinson's view) would dissolve the bones soon after death. Dickinson states he got the idea for his "pseudo-scientific monograph" after looking at one of Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea books: This one had a bulky body and rather stubby wings, which obviously would never get it airborne, let alone with the two people it was carrying on its back, and all its own weight of muscle and bone. Obviously any lift had to come from the body itself. Its very shape suggested some kind of gas-bag. I thought about it for the rest of the journey, and on and off for a couple of days after, and at the end of that time had managed to slot everything I knew about dragons – why they laired in caves, around which nothing would grow and where hoards of gold could be found, why they had a preferred diet of princesses, how and why they breathed fire, why they had only one vulnerable spot and their blood melted the blade of the sword that killed them, and so on – into a coherent theory that explained why these things were necessary accompaniments to the evolution of lighter-than-air flight.
The Flight of Dragons (book) : In 1982, Rankin/Bass Productions released a made-for-TV animated film The Flight of Dragons, aspects of which were based on Dickinson's book. For example, the character design in the film bears a resemblance to the illustrations in the book, and its lead character takes his name from the author, Peter Dickinson. However, the animated film derives most elements of its story line from the novel The Dragon and the George.
The Flight of Dragons (book) : The Last Dragon (2004 film), a docufiction film which uses similar speculative evolutionary ideas. == References ==
List of dragons in games : This is a list of dragons in tabletop and video games. If there are many dragons, then only the most notable are mentioned.
List of dragons in games : List of dragons in film and television List of dragons in literature List of dragons in popular culture List of dragons in mythology and folklore
The Goblin Reservation : The Goblin Reservation is a 1968 science fiction novel by American writer Clifford D. Simak, featuring an educated Neanderthal, a biomechanical sabertooth tiger, aliens that move about on wheels, a man who time-travels using an unreliable device implanted in his brain, a ghost, trolls, banshees, goblins, a dragon and even Shakespeare himself. The Goblin Reservation was a Hugo Award nominee in 1969 and was originally serialized in Galaxy Science Fiction magazine.
The Goblin Reservation : The Goblin Reservation is the tale of Professor Peter Maxwell. It is set in the distant future when the Earth has been transformed into a university planet; a planet where creatures from all over the galaxy come to study, teach, and be entertained by the amazing discoveries that Earth is now rich with. Among the many things that Earth can now boast is Time University: a university devoted to slipping through time and discovering the truth about past events. People and creatures from the past are brought forward in time to be interviewed, studied and to provide entertainment for the people of the future. Among these are Alley Oop, a very smart, if at times crude, Neanderthal rescued from certain death and educated in the future. The creatures that people of the past always thought to be myth—such as trolls, fairies, goblins, and the like—have been discovered and placed on various reservations where they live and are studied by those working at Supernatural, a division of the planet-wide university. The story begins when Peter Maxwell comes home to Earth only to discover that he has died. He is forced to investigate his own "murder" and discover who or what wanted him dead. He also returns with an additional mystery. He was apparently copied by unknown aliens and sent to a hidden crystal world that may have come from the universe that existed before ours. The knowledge contained in the crystal planet could belong to Earth if Maxwell can discover what the intelligences remaining on the planet want. The alien race known as Wheelers want the Artifact, a monolith on display in a museum on Earth. The connection between the two provides the climax to the story. Before the events of the story, the University is expecting to close a lucrative deal for the Artifact, as well as mounting a prestigious series of talks by William Shakespeare in person. At the end, thanks to Maxwell, the deal is off, a dragon is on the loose, and Shakespeare has disappeared.
The Goblin Reservation : Peter Maxwell : A professor in the Supernatural Department at the University who has traveled by teleportation to a distant planet and back, originally following a report of a dragon sighting. On his return he finds that he is a duplicate of the original Maxwell, who has been murdered. He himself spent time on a planet roofed entirely in crystal that seems to contain the secrets of a previous version of the universe. He has a mission to find an important item, which turns out to be something the University collected from the past, known as the Artifact. Carol Hampton : A new hire at the University who was given Maxwell's old apartment. Maxwell's key still works, and the two encounter each other when he lets himself in. Ally Oop : A Neanderthal rescued from cannibals in the past, and Maxwell's drinking buddy. He lets Maxwell stay with him. They spend much time drinking Oop's home-brewed moonshine. Nancy Clayton : A society lady who hosts fashionable soirees, usually to introduce something new or bizarre. Maxwell gets what he thinks is an invitation, apparently because he has returned from the dead. However he is ushered secretly in the back door, and finds one of the Wheelers waiting to bargain with him for the crystal planet's knowledge. Nancy disavows all knowledge of the invitation, and planned the party for the Wheeler, who goes by the name "Mr. Marmaduke". Mr. Churchill : Churchill is a freelance business agent and fixer who has taken on the Wheelers as clients. He "bumps into" Maxwell just after his return to Earth and continues to pester him on behalf of Mr. Marmaduke. Harlow Sharpe : Sharpe is the head of the Time College. By the time Maxwell realizes the Wheelers' intent, Sharpe has already made a deal for the Artifact. Maxwell inadvertently wrecks all of Sharpe's plans, but in compensation the knowledge of the crystal planet is promised to Earth. Mr. O'Toole : Leader of the Goblins and Maxwell's friend on the Goblin Reservation. Proud and arrogant, he is in conflict with the trolls who are ruining the precious October Ale. The trolls only want respect from the goblins and a share of the ale. Wheelers : These are a race of aliens consisting of two wheels on either side of a translucent bubble containing luminous bugs. They apparently have hive minds. It is later revealed that they used to be the draft animals of the race that made the crystal planet and the Artifact. They can expel deadly noxious gases that were probably the cause of Maxwell's original "death". The Banshee : A smoky wraith-like creature that is dying as an outcast on the reservation. Maxwell sits a death-watch with it, and in return the Banshee tells him the truth about the crystal planet. The banshees are messengers for the crystal planet and its creatures, and are still able to communicate with it. Trolls : These creatures live in bridges they construct from stones, and are the only inhabitants of the Goblin Reservation who remember the ways of magic. Despised and ostracised by the goblins, they retaliate by preventing vehicles from flying over the Reservation, notably an air car carrying Maxwell that is forced to land when its power is cut. They also vandalize fairy rings and other structures. Maxwell gets concessions from the goblins in order for the trolls to bring down the Wheelers who are pursuing the dragon through the air. William Shakespeare : Brought from the past, Shakespeare is scheduled to give a lecture about how he did not write the plays. His presence sparks a brawl between the English department and the Time department. Sylvester the Sabre-Tooth : This is Carol Hampton's pet, a bio-mechanical re-creation of one of the extinct big cats. His appearance usually leads to mayhem. The Artifact : Actually a dragon in suspended animation, it is accidentally freed when Maxwell uses a viewer given to him on the crystal planet. The Wheelers are trying to buy the Artifact from Earth. The first Maxwell was killed to prevent him revealing the truth about it. The Wheelers attack the dragon, and Maxwell has to negotiate peace between the goblins and the other creatures on the reservation in order to make them cooperate against the Wheelers. Albert Lambert the Artist : A painter born in 1973 whose style changed radically for unknown reasons when he turned 50. His later work depicts a bizarre unearthly landscape, including the Artifact. He appears suddenly, using an erratic experimental time-travel device implanted in his brain. Shown his own work, he denies painting it, but says he will eventually because he only paints things he has seen. He identifies the Wheelers, the goblins and the other mythical creatures as those he saw attempting to colonize Earth from space in the Jurassic era. The paintings depict their cities. He returns to his own time using Time University's facilities. The Ghost : An actual ghost who cannot remember who he used to be. At the end he is revealed to be the ghost of Shakespeare himself. The two dance together in the reservation at the story's conclusion.
The Goblin Reservation : Lake Mendota, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, is mentioned in a scene where Maxwell reflects on the mess his life has become.
The Goblin Reservation : The novel was nominated to the 1969 Hugo Awards.
The Goblin Reservation : In a 2012 video interview with Gawker Media science fiction site io9, Hugo award-winning author Kim Stanley Robinson attributed The Goblin Reservation as the book that got him initially interested in science fiction.
The Goblin Reservation : The Goblin Reservation title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Harry Potter : Harry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels written by British author J. K. Rowling. The novels chronicle the lives of a young wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The main story arc concerns Harry's conflict with Lord Voldemort, a dark wizard who intends to become immortal, overthrow the wizard governing body known as the Ministry of Magic, and subjugate all wizards and Muggles (non-magical people). The series was originally published in English by Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States. A series of many genres, including fantasy, drama, coming-of-age fiction, and the British school story (which includes elements of mystery, thriller, adventure, horror, and romance), the world of Harry Potter explores numerous themes and includes many cultural meanings and references. Major themes in the series include prejudice, corruption, madness, love, and death. Since the release of the first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, on 26 June 1997, the books have found immense popularity, positive reviews, and commercial success worldwide. They have attracted a wide adult audience as well as younger readers and are widely considered cornerstones of modern literature. As of February 2023, the books have sold more than 600 million copies worldwide, making them the best-selling book series in history, and have been available in 85 languages. The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history, with the final instalment selling roughly 2.7 million copies in the United Kingdom and 8.3 million copies in the United States within twenty-four hours of its release. Warner Bros. Pictures adapted the original seven books into an eight-part namesake film series. In 2016, the total value of the Harry Potter franchise was estimated at $25 billion, making it one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time. Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is a play based on a story co-written by Rowling. The success of the books and films has allowed the Harry Potter franchise to expand with numerous derivative works, a travelling exhibition that premiered in Chicago in 2009, a studio tour in London that opened in 2012, a digital platform on which J. K. Rowling updates the series with new information and insight, and a trilogy of spin-off films premiering in November 2016 with Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, among many other developments. Themed attractions, collectively known as The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, have been built at several Universal Destinations & Experiences amusement parks around the world.
Harry Potter : Harry Potter's overarching theme is death. In the first book, when Harry looks into the Mirror of Erised, he feels both joy and "a terrible sadness" at seeing his desire: his parents, alive and with him. Confronting their loss is central to Harry's character arc and manifests in different ways through the series, such as in his struggles with Dementors. Other characters in Harry's life die; he even faces his own death in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. The series has an existential perspective—Harry must grow mature enough to accept death. In Harry's world, death is not binary but mutable, a state that exists in degrees. Unlike Voldemort, who evades death by separating and hiding his soul in seven parts, Harry's soul is whole, nourished by friendship and love. Love distinguishes Harry and Voldemort. Harry is a hero because he loves others, even willing to accept death to save them; Voldemort is a villain because he does not. Harry carries the protection of his mother's sacrifice in his blood; Voldemort, who wants Harry's blood and the protection it carries, does not understand that love vanquishes death. Rowling has spoken about thematising death and loss in the series. Soon after she started writing Philosopher's Stone, her mother died; she said that "I really think from that moment on, death became a central, if not the central theme of the seven books". Rowling has described Harry as "the prism through which I view death", and further stated that "all of my characters are defined by their attitude to death and the possibility of death". While Harry Potter can be viewed as a story about good vs. evil, its moral divisions are not absolute. First impressions of characters are often misleading. Harry assumes in the first book that Quirrell is on the side of good because he opposes Snape, who appears to be malicious; in reality, Quirrell is an agent of Voldemort, while Snape is loyal to Dumbledore. This pattern later recurs with Moody and Snape. In Rowling's world, good and evil are choices rather than inherent attributes: second chances and the possibility of redemption are key themes of the series. This is reflected in Harry's self-doubts after learning his connections to Voldemort, such as Parseltongue; and prominently in Snape's characterisation, which has been described as complex and multifaceted. In some scholars' view, while Rowling's narrative appears on the surface to be about Harry, her focus may actually be on Snape's morality and character arc. Rowling said that, to her, the moral significance of the tales seems "blindingly obvious". In the fourth book, Dumbledore speaks of a "choice between what is right and what is easy"; Rowling views this as a key theme, "because that ... is how tyranny is started, with people being apathetic and taking the easy route and suddenly finding themselves in deep trouble". Academics and journalists have developed many other interpretations of themes in the books, some more complex than others, and some including political subtexts. Themes such as normality, oppression, survival, and overcoming imposing odds have all been considered as prevalent throughout the series. Similarly, the theme of making one's way through adolescence and "going over one's most harrowing ordeals—and thus coming to terms with them" has also been considered. Rowling has stated that the books comprise "a prolonged argument for tolerance, a prolonged plea for an end to bigotry" and that they also pass on a message to "question authority and... not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth".
Harry Potter : In 1990, Rowling was on a crowded train from Manchester to London when the idea for Harry suddenly "fell into" her head. Rowling gives an account of the experience on her website saying: I had been writing almost continuously since the age of six but I had never been so excited about an idea before. I simply sat and thought, for four (delayed train) hours, and all the details bubbled up in my brain, and this scrawny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who did not know he was a wizard became more and more real to me. Rowling completed Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone in 1995 and the manuscript was sent off to several prospective agents. The second agent she tried, Christopher Little, offered to represent her and sent the manuscript to several publishers.
Harry Potter : The Harry Potter series has been recognised by a host of awards since the initial publication of Philosopher's Stone including a platinum award from the Whitaker Gold and Platinum Book Awards ( 2001), three Nestlé Smarties Book Prizes (1997–1999), two Scottish Arts Council Book Awards (1999 and 2001), the inaugural Whitbread children's book of the year award (1999), and the WHSmith book of the year (2006), among others. In 2000, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Novel, and in 2001, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire won said award. Honours include a commendation for the Carnegie Medal (1997), a short listing for the Guardian Children's Award (1998), and numerous listings on the notable books, editors' Choices, and best books lists of the American Library Association, The New York Times, Chicago Public Library, and Publishers Weekly. In 2002, sociologist Andrew Blake named Harry Potter a British pop culture icon along with the likes of James Bond and Sherlock Holmes. In 2003, four of the books were named in the top 24 of the BBC's The Big Read survey of the best loved novels in the UK. A 2004 study found that books in the series were commonly read aloud in elementary schools in San Diego County, California. Based on a 2007 online poll, the US National Education Association listed the series in its "Teachers' Top 100 Books for Children". Time magazine named Rowling as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year award, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fandom. Three of the books placed among the "Top 100 Chapter Books" of all time, or children's novels, in a 2012 survey published by School Library Journal: Sorcerer's Stone ranked number three, Prisoner of Azkaban 12th, and Goblet of Fire 98th. In 2007, the seven Harry Potter book covers were depicted on a series of UK postage stamps issued by Royal Mail. In 2012, the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London featured a 100-foot tall rendition of Lord Voldemort in a segment designed to showcase the UK's cultural icons. In November 2019, the BBC listed the Harry Potter series on its list of the 100 most influential novels.
Harry Potter : Universal and Warner Brothers created The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, a Harry Potter-themed expansion to the Islands of Adventure theme park at Universal Orlando Resort in Florida. It opened to the public on 18 June 2010. It includes a recreation of Hogsmeade and several rides; its flagship attraction is Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, which exists within a recreation of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. In 2014 Universal opened a Harry Potter-themed area at the Universal Studios Florida theme park. It includes a recreation of Diagon Alley. The flagship attraction is the Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts roller coaster ride. A completely functioning full-scale replica of the Hogwarts Express was created for the Diagon Alley expansion, connecting King's Cross Station at Universal Studios to the Hogsmeade station at Islands of Adventure. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at the Universal Studios Hollywood theme park near Los Angeles, California in 2016, and in Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan in 2014. The Osaka venue includes the village of Hogsmeade, Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride, and Flight of the Hippogriff roller coaster. Other Harry Potter roller coasters are the Dragon Challenge and Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, both at Universal Islands of Adventure. Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter is a behind-the-scenes walking tour in London featuring authentic sets, costumes and props from the film series. The attraction is located at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden, where all eight of the Harry Potter films were made. Warner Bros. constructed two new sound stages to house and showcase the sets from each of the British-made productions, following a £100 million investment. It opened to the public in March 2012.
Harry Potter : Rowling expanded the Harry Potter universe with short books produced for charities. In 2001, she released Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (a purported Hogwarts textbook) and Quidditch Through the Ages (a book Harry reads for fun). Proceeds from the sale of these two books benefited the charity Comic Relief. In 2007, Rowling composed seven handwritten copies of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, a collection of fairy tales that is featured in the final novel, one of which was auctioned to raise money for the Children's High Level Group, a fund for mentally disabled children in poor countries. The book was published internationally on 4 December 2008. Rowling also wrote an 800-word prequel in 2008 as part of a fundraiser organised by the bookseller Waterstones. All three of these books contain extra information about the wizarding world not included in the original novels. In 2016, she released three new e-books: Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide, Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky Poltergeists and Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies. Rowling's website Pottermore was launched in 2012. Pottermore allows users to be sorted, be chosen by their wand and play various minigames. The main purpose of the website was to allow the user to journey through the story with access to content not revealed by JK Rowling previously, with over 18,000 words of additional content. The site was redesigned in 2015 as WizardingWorld and it mainly focuses on the information already available, rather than exploration.
Harry Potter : Mary Poppins The Worst Witch
Harry Potter : Agarwal, Nikita; Chitra Agarwal (2005). Friends and Foes of Harry Potter: Names Decoded. Outskirts Press. ISBN 978-1-59800-221-8. Allardice, Lisa (18 June 2022). "'There was practically a riot at King's Cross': an oral history of Harry Potter at 25". The Guardian. Retrieved 26 August 2024. Burkart, Gina (2005). A parent's guide to Harry Potter. InterVarsity Press. ISBN 978-0-8308-3288-0. Harry Potter. Duriez, Colin (2007). Field Guide to Harry Potter. IVP Books. ISBN 978-0-8308-3430-3. Mulholland, Neil (2007). The Psychology of Harry Potter: An Unauthorized Examination of the Boy Who Lived. BenBella Books. ISBN 978-1-932100-88-4. Silvester, William (2010). Harry Potter Collector's Handbook. Krause. ISBN 978-1-4402-0897-3.
Harry Potter : J. K. Rowling's personal website Harry Potter movies—Official website (Warner Bros.) Harry Potter at Bloomsbury.com (International publisher) Harry Potter at Scholastic.com (US publisher) Harry Potter at Raincoast.com (Canadian publisher) Harry Potter collected news and commentary at The Guardian Harry Potter collected news and commentary at The New York Times The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Orlando resort, Florida
Helluva Good Luck : Helluva Good Luck (Czech: Z pekla štěstí) is a 1999 Czech fantasy film directed by Zdeněk Troška. It is inspired by Jan Drda's story "Brave Honza". A sequel was released in 2001.
Helluva Good Luck : The film is about a youngster Jan, who falls in love with Markéta. She serves at Castle. Jan is forced to a journey. He retrieves a napkin, allowing him to be invisible, and defeats a dragon.
Helluva Good Luck : Miroslav Šimůnek as Jan Michaela Kuklová as Markéta Daniel Hůlka as Brambas Vladimír Brabec as King Sabina Laurinová as Princess Eufrozína Lukáš Vaculík as Kujbaba
Helluva Good Luck : Helluva Good Luck at IMDb
Helluva Good Luck 2 : Helluva Good Luck 2 (Czech: Z pekla štěstí 2) is a 2001 Czech fantasy film directed by Zdeněk Troška. It is a sequel to Helluva Good Luck. The film stars Michaela Kuklová and Miroslav Šimůnek. Karel Gott appeared in a supporting role as Lucifer and God.
Helluva Good Luck 2 : Michaela Kuklová as Markéta Miroslav Šimůnek as Jan Vladimír Brabec as King Daniel Hůlka as Brambas Sabina Laurinová as Princess Eufrozína Dana Morávková as Dora Lukáš Vaculík as Kujbaba Karel Gott as Lucifer and God Radoslav Brzobohatý as Markéta's father Milena Dvorská as Jan's Mother
Helluva Good Luck 2 : Helluva Good Luck 2 at IMDb
Hoard (video game) : Hoard (trademarked as HOARD) is an action-strategy video game developed by Canadian studio Big Sandwich Games Inc. It was released on November 2, 2010, in North America on PlayStation Network, on April 4, 2011, for the PC and Mac on Steam, and on June 2, 2011, on the PAL PlayStation Network regions.
Hoard (video game) : Hoard was released for the PlayStation 3 on November 2, 2010. The PSP version of Hoard was released on March 22, 2011, in the United States.
Hoard (video game) : Review aggregator Metacritic rated the PlayStation 3 version of Hoard at 75 percent and the PC version at 65 percent. IGN awarded Hoard "Best Quick Fix" in their PlayStation 3 Best of 2010 Awards, and also nominated the game for "Best Competitive Multiplayer."
Hoard (video game) : Official site Developer site Hoard at MobyGames
House of the Dragon : House of the Dragon is an American fantasy drama television series created by George R. R. Martin and Ryan Condal for HBO. A prequel to Game of Thrones (2011–2019), it is the second television series in Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire franchise. Condal and Miguel Sapochnik served as the showrunners for the first season. Based on parts of Martin's 2018 book Fire & Blood, the series begins about 100 years after the Seven Kingdoms are united by the Targaryen conquest, nearly 200 years before the events of Game of Thrones, and 172 years before the birth of Daenerys Targaryen. Featuring an ensemble cast, the show portrays the events leading up to the decline of House Targaryen, a devastating war of succession known as the "Dance of the Dragons." House of the Dragon received a straight-to-series order in October 2019, with casting beginning in July 2020 and principal photography starting in April 2021 in the United Kingdom. The series premiered on August 21, 2022, with the first season consisting of ten episodes. The series was renewed for a second season five days after its premiere. Sapochnik departed as showrunner after the first season, leaving Condal to serve as the sole showrunner for the second season. The second season premiered on June 16, 2024, with eight episodes. In June 2024, ahead of the second-season premiere, the series was renewed for a third season. The first season received positive reviews, with praise for its character development, visual effects, writing, score by Ramin Djawadi, and performances. However, the pacing, specifically of the time jumps, and the dark lighting of some scenes were criticized. The series premiere was watched by over 10 million viewers across the linear channels and HBO Max on the first day, the biggest in HBO's history. At the 80th Golden Globe Awards, House of the Dragon won Best Television Series – Drama, and Emma D'Arcy was nominated for Best Actress in a Television Series – Drama. The series earned nine Emmy Award nominations, including Outstanding Drama Series, and won three British Academy Television Craft Awards.
House of the Dragon : Paddy Considine as King Viserys I Targaryen (season 1; uncredited guest season 2): The fifth king of the Seven Kingdoms. Known as "a warm, kind, and decent man", Viserys was chosen by a council of lords to succeed his grandfather, King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, as king. Viserys is the firstborn son of Jaehaerys' second son Prince Baelon Targaryen and his sister-wife Princess Alyssa Targaryen. Viserys is a former dragonrider who was bonded to the dragon Balerion, also known as the "Black Dread", and was Balerion's last rider before its death. Matt Smith as Prince / King Consort Daemon Targaryen: The younger brother of King Viserys I Targaryen and uncle / second husband of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. Known as the "Rogue Prince" for his unpredictable behavior, Daemon is a fierce warrior and wields the Valyrian steel sword Dark Sister. He is a formidable dragonrider who is bonded to the dragon Caraxes, also known as the "Blood Wyrm". Emma D'Arcy as Princess / Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen: King Viserys I Targaryen's daughter and heir apparent, the firstborn and only surviving child of Viserys and his first wife, Queen Aemma Arryn. She was praised as the "Realm's Delight" during her youth. She is crowned queen by her supporters, the "Blacks", after her step-mother, Dowager Queen Alicent Hightower, usurped the throne for her own son – Rhaenyra's half-brother – by claiming that Viserys changed his successor with his dying breath. Rhaenyra is a dragonrider who is bonded to the dragon Syrax. Milly Alcock portrays young Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen (season 1; guest season 2). Rhys Ifans as Ser Otto Hightower: Queen Alicent Hightower's father and the Hand of the King on King Viserys I Targaryen's Small Council. He continues to hold his position under King Aegon II Targaryen, until being replaced by Aegon with Ser Criston Cole. When his daughter became queen, he began plotting to put her eldest son Aegon on the Iron Throne, instead of Rhaenyra. Steve Toussaint as Lord Corlys Velaryon: The Lord of Driftmark and head of House Velaryon, one of the wealthiest and most powerful families in the Seven Kingdoms. Known as "the Sea Snake", he is the most famous seafarer in Westerosi history. He is the Master of Ships on King Viserys I Targaryen's Small Council until his resignation and later becomes Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen's Hand of the Queen. Eve Best as Princess Rhaenys Targaryen (seasons 1–2): Viserys and Daemon's older cousin and the wife of Lord Corlys Velaryon. Rhaenys is the only child of Prince Aemon Targaryen, King Jaehaerys I Targaryen's late heir apparent and oldest son, and Jocelyn Baratheon, Jaehaerys' half-sister. Known as the "Queen Who Never Was", she was once a candidate to succeed her grandfather as ruler of the Seven Kingdoms but was passed over in favor of her younger cousin Viserys due to her gender. She is a formidable dragonrider who is bonded to the dragon Meleys, also known as the "Red Queen". Sonoya Mizuno as Mysaria: A foreign-born brothel dancer who rose to become Prince Daemon Targaryen's paramour and most trusted confidante until they eventually parted ways. She is later known as the "White Worm" and leads a network of spies throughout King's Landing and becomes Rhaenyra's advisor. Fabien Frankel as Ser Criston Cole: A skilled swordsman from the Dornish Marches and the common-born son of the steward to the Lord of Blackhaven, who is hand-picked by Princess Rhaenyra to become a member of King Viserys I Targaryen's Kingsguard. He later replaces Ser Harrold Westerling as Lord Commander of the Kingsguard following the ascension of King Aegon II Targaryen, and also replaces Ser Otto Hightower as Hand of the King. Olivia Cooke as Queen / Dowager Queen Alicent Hightower: Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen's childhood companion and later the second wife and queen consort of King Viserys I Targaryen. She is raised in the Red Keep as part of the King's inner circle and is known as the comeliest woman in the court. Emily Carey portrays young Lady / Queen Alicent Hightower (season 1). Graham McTavish as Ser Harrold Westerling (season 1): A seasoned knight of the Kingsguard who has served the Crown since the reign of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen. He is tasked with watching over and protecting Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. He replaces Ser Ryam Redwyne as the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard and later resigns from his position before King Aegon II Targaryen's ascension. Matthew Needham as Lord Larys Strong: The younger son of Lord Lyonel Strong, he is known as "Clubfoot" due to a birth abnormality that causes him to walk with a limp. He is Queen Alicent's trusted confidant and serves as the Lord Confessor and later the Master of Whisperers on King Aegon II Targaryen's Small Council. He also succeeds his father as Lord of Harrenhal and head of House Strong. Jefferson Hall as identical twins Lord Jason Lannister: The Lord of Casterly Rock, head of House Lannister and Warden of the West. An arrogant hunter and a warrior, he unsuccessfully vies for the hand of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. Ser Tyland Lannister: Lord Jason Lannister's younger twin brother and a cunning politician. He replaces Lord Corlys Velaryon as Master of Ships on King Viserys I Targaryen's Small Council and later switches his position to replace Lord Lyman Beesbury as the Master of Coin under King Aegon II Targaryen. Harry Collett as Prince Jacaerys "Jace" Velaryon: The firstborn son of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen and Ser Laenor Velaryon. He is a dragonrider who is bonded to the young dragon Vermax. Leo Hart portrays young Jacaerys Velaryon (guest season 1). Tom Glynn-Carney as Prince / King Aegon II Targaryen: The sixth king of the Seven Kingdoms. He is the firstborn son of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alicent Hightower, half-brother to Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen, husband to his sister-wife Helaena Targaryen, and father to her children. Despite the best efforts of his mother, his hedonism and depravity are legendary in King's Landing's Street of Silk. He is a dragonrider who is bonded to the young dragon Sunfyre, also known as "Sunfyre the Golden". Ty Tennant portrays young Prince Aegon Targaryen (guest season 1). Ewan Mitchell as Prince Aemond Targaryen: The third child and second son of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alicent Hightower. He is known as "Aemond One-Eye" after losing his left eye in a brawl with his nephews and has grown to become a fearsome and aggressive warrior. He aspires to be a dragonrider and later claims the old dragon Vhagar, also known as the "Queen of All Dragons". Leo Ashton portrays young Prince Aemond Targaryen (guest season 1). Bethany Antonia as Lady Baela Targaryen: The elder daughter of Prince Daemon Targaryen and Lady Laena Velaryon. She is a dragonrider who is bonded to the young dragon Moondancer. Shani Smethurst portrays young Baela Targaryen (guest season 1). Phoebe Campbell as Lady Rhaena Targaryen: The younger daughter of Prince Daemon Targaryen and Lady Laena Velaryon. She is in possession of a dragon egg, although it has yet to hatch. Eva Ossei-Gerning portrays young Rhaena Targaryen (guest season 1). Phia Saban as Princess / Queen Helaena Targaryen: The secondborn child and only daughter of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alicent Hightower, sister-wife of King Aegon II Targaryen, and mother to his children. She has a unique interest in bugs and often speaks in cryptic prophetic language. She is a dragonrider who is bonded to the dragon Dreamfyre. Evie Allen portrays young Princess Helaena Targaryen (guest season 1). Kurt Egyiawan as Grand Maester Orwyle (season 2; recurring season 1): A maester of the Citadel who replaces Mellos as the Grand Maester on King Viserys I Targaryen's Small Council and continues to hold his position under King Aegon II Targaryen. Kieran Bew as Hugh Hammer (season 2): A blacksmith from King's Landing who struggles to care for his sick daughter. He later reveals himself to be a Targaryen bastard, the grandson of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, and claims the dragon Vermithor, also known as "The Bronze Fury". Abubakar Salim as Alyn of Hull (season 2): Lord Corlys Velaryon's bastard son and a sailor in service to House Velaryon who saved Corlys' life in the Stepstones. Tom Taylor as Lord Cregan Stark (season 2): The young Lord of Winterfell, head of House Stark and Warden of the North. Clinton Liberty as Addam of Hull (season 2): Lord Corlys Velaryon's bastard son, Alyn's brother, and a shipwright in the Velaryon fleet. He is later pursued by the dragon Seasmoke, who chooses Addam to be his dragonrider. Tom Bennett as Ulf White (season 2): A denizen of King's Landing who claims to be a Targaryen bastard and the half-brother of King Viserys I and Prince Daemon Targaryen. He later claims the dragon Silverwing. Ellora Torchia as Kat (season 2): Hugh's wife and mother to his daughter. Freddie Fox as Ser Gwayne Hightower (season 2): The son of Ser Otto Hightower and older brother of Dowager Queen Alicent Hightower. Will Willoughby portrays young Gwayne Hightower (uncredited season 1). Gayle Rankin as Alys Rivers (season 2): A mysterious healer at Harrenhal in service to House Strong. Simon Russell Beale as Ser Simon Strong (season 2): The great-uncle of Lord Larys Strong and the Castellan of Harrenhal.
House of the Dragon : House of the Dragon premiered on August 21, 2022. It is HBO's first new series to stream in 4K, Dolby Vision HDR and Dolby Atmos on its sister streaming platform HBO Max. The first episode was released for free on YouTube on September 2, 2022. The first-season finale was leaked online the week before the actual air date, with the full episode appearing on torrent sites. According to HBO, the leak came from a Europe, the Middle East and Africa partner and it will "aggressively" monitor for additional leaks. The second season premiered on June 16, 2024. The second-season finale was also leaked online, with HBO releasing a statement stating the leak originated from a "third-party distributor".
House of the Dragon : The novella The Princess and the Queen (2013) and its prequel The Rogue Prince (2014), both of which are authored by George R. R. Martin, later incorporated within the "Dance of the Dragons" plotline in Fire & Blood.
House of the Dragon : Official website House of the Dragon at IMDb House of the Dragon on Twitter
How to Train Your Dragon : How to Train Your Dragon (HTTYD) is an American media franchise from DreamWorks Animation and loosely based on the eponymous series of children's books by British author Cressida Cowell. It consists of three feature films: How to Train Your Dragon (2010), How to Train Your Dragon 2 (2014), and How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World (2019). The franchise also contains five short films: Legend of the Boneknapper Dragon (2010), Book of Dragons (2010), Gift of the Night Fury (2011), Dawn of the Dragon Racers (2014), and How to Train Your Dragon: Homecoming (2019). A live-action remake from Universal Pictures is in development and scheduled for release on June 13, 2025. The television series based on the events of the first film, DreamWorks Dragons, began airing on Cartoon Network in September 2012. The first and second seasons were titled Dragon: Riders of Berk and Dragons: Defenders of Berk respectively. After the two seasons on Cartoon Network, the series was given the new title Dragons: Race to the Edge. The characters are older and it served as a prequel to the second film, running from June 2015 to February 2018. A second series, titled Dragons: Rescue Riders, began airing on Netflix in 2019 and features a completely different cast and locale than the original series of films and TV shows, but is set in the same universe. A third series, Dragons: The Nine Realms, began streaming on Hulu and Peacock in December 2021, with Rescue Riders transferring to Peacock beginning with the third season under the Heroes of the Sky subtitle. Unlike past entries in the franchise, The Nine Realms is set in the 21st century, specifically 1,300 years after the events of The Hidden World. The franchise primarily follows the adventures of a young Viking named Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III (voiced by Jay Baruchel), son of Stoick the Vast, leader of the Viking island of Berk. Although initially dismissed as a clumsy and underweight misfit, he soon becomes renowned as a courageous dragons expert, alongside Toothless, a member of the rare Night Fury breed as his flying mount and closest companion. Together with his friends, he manages the village's allied dragon population in defense of his home as leader of a flying corps of dragon riders. Upon becoming leaders of their kind, Hiccup and Toothless are forced to make choices that will truly ensure peace between people and dragons. Dean DeBlois, the director of the film trilogy, described its story as "Hiccup's coming of age", taking place across a span of five years between the first and second film, and a year between the second and third film. The film series has been highly acclaimed, with each film nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, in addition to the first film's nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Score.
How to Train Your Dragon : Three television series make up the DreamWorks Dragons television franchise: DreamWorks Dragons, Rescue Riders, and The Nine Realms. All series in total amount to 223 episodes across 22 seasons of television.
How to Train Your Dragon : An action adventure video game released by Activision called How to Train Your Dragon was released for the Wii, Xbox 360, and PS3 gaming consoles. It is loosely based on the film and was released on March 23, 2010. A game for Nintendo DS published by Griptonite Games, was also released on March 23, 2010 and published by Activision. Dreamworks Super Star Kartz video game was released by Activision on November 15, 2011, for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, Nintendo DS, and Nintendo 3DS. The game features 14 different characters from DreamWorks' films – How to Train Your Dragon, Madagascar, Shrek, and Monsters vs. Aliens. Dragons: TapDragonDrop, a mobile video game, developed by PikPok, was released on May 3, 2012, on App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Dragons: Wild Skies, a 3D virtual world game based on the television series DreamWorks Dragons has been launched on August 27, 2012, on CartoonNetwork.com. The game allows players to find, train and ride wild dragons, including new ones as they are introduced in the series. School of Dragons, a 3D educational massively multiplayer online role-playing game produced by JumpStart, game concept was co-created by Producer David Jaloza and Lead Designer Justin Prate was released online in July 2013, after a month-long beta testing. A Facebook version was released in October 2013, followed by an iPad app in December 2013, a version for Android-powered tablets in March 2014, and a version for the PC in 2014. In the game, each player is able to adopt, raise and train a dragon, while learning how they function. The game was shut down on June 30, 2023. Dragons Adventure, an augmented reality game, was released in November 2013, exclusively for Nokia Lumia 2520. Dragons: Rise of Berk is a free game which allows players to build their own Berk village, send Hiccup and Toothless out on exploration, hatch and collect up to 30 dragons and train their own dragon at the academy. Developed by Ludia, it was released in May 2014 for iOS, and on June 20, 2014, for Android and Facebook. How to Train Your Dragon 2, an action adventure game, was released in June 2014 for Xbox 360, Nintendo 3DS, Wii, Wii U and PlayStation 3. The game was published by Little Orbit. Dragons: Titan Uprising was announced by Canadian developer Ludia in November 2018, and released in early 2019. Dragons: Dawn of New Riders, an action adventure game, developed by Climax Studios and released in 2019 for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and PC. The game involves the playable characters Scribbler and Patch on their quest to defeat Eir, by exploring the world and its puzzle and battle elements. Dragons: Legends of the Nine Realms, an action adventure game, developed by Aheartfulofgames and released in 2022 for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and PC. Dreamworks All-Star Kart Racing is a racing video game published by GameMill Entertainment, and includes Hiccup and Astrid as playable racers, along with a race track based on New Berk. The game was released on November 3, 2023 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Microsoft Windows, Xbox Series X and Series S, and Xbox One.
How to Train Your Dragon : Official website DreamWorks Animation's School of Dragons
Ironwood (comics) : Ironwood is a pornographic comic book series written and drawn by Bill Willingham in the 1990s, published in the United States by Eros Comix. It ran for 11 issues; the first six issues being published in 1991, the remaining five taking another four years to produce/publish. The series was collected into two trade paperbacks; volume 1 was published in 1993 (ISBN 1560972041), and volume 2 was published in 1996 (ISBN 156097222X).
Ironwood (comics) : Ironwood follows the adventures of Dave Dragavon, a juvenile dragon existing only in human form (not yet having matured enough to take full dragon form) who is hired by the beautiful Pandora Breedlswight to find the wizard Gnaric in order to free her from a curse. The comics are a mixture of sword and sorcery, sexual situations and adult humor.
Ironwood (comics) : Ironwood at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
It Hits the Fan : "It Hits the Fan" is the fifth season premiere of the American animated television series South Park, and the 66th episode of the series overall. It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on June 20, 2001. In the episode, after the word shit is said uncensored on the network television crime show Cop Drama, everyone starts saying the word repeatedly. This eventually brings on a mysterious plague that unleashes the ancient Knights of Standards and Practices, and only Chef and the boys can save the world. The episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States. Throughout the episode, the profanity shit or shitty are exclaimed uncensored a total of 162 separate times; in syndicated or re-aired versions of this episode, a counter in the bottom left corner of the screen counts the number of times the word has been uttered. The written occurrences are not counted, but "shit" is written 38 times, which brings the count up to an even 200. On a statistical average, the word "shit" is uttered roughly once for every eight seconds of showtime; one such count includes the episode's theme song in the calculation. This episode marked the transition in animation software from PowerAnimator to Autodesk Maya.
It Hits the Fan : Kyle has tickets to The Lion King on Stage, but Cartman tells him that the HBC crime show Cop Drama is going to use the word "shit" uncensored. The broadcast of the show leads to widespread acceptance of the word, even in schools, causing people to use it constantly, in casual and often out of context during conversations. Furthermore, Ms. Choksondik is forced to clarify the acceptable context of the word—as a noun or adjective meaning bad, or as an exclamation of disappointment, the word is acceptable, but as a noun or adjective referring to feces, it is apparently unacceptable—thoroughly confusing the children (a reference to the real-life FCC standards of indecency). A strange illness that causes people to spew up their intestines and die suddenly rises in South Park, so action is taken. Meanwhile, Mr. Garrison teaches the kindergartners not only about the word "shit," but also about the word "fag," which he is allowed to say uncensored because he is homosexual. Later, in the local bar, he demonstrates this when he says the word uncensored, but any heterosexual who attempts to say the word is censored. Finally, Jimbo also says the word, but it is not censored. The boys then visit with Chef to the library, where they find out that the word is actually a literal "curse word," and its constant utterance has caused a resurgence of the Black Death. Together they head to the HBC Head office to get the executives to stop using it with little luck. "Must Shit TV", a special live event in which episodes of existing shows are taped live with almost every word of dialogue replaced with the word "shit", goes ahead anyway until the Knights of Standards and Practices enter the studio and begin killing the actors (Drew and Mimi from The Drew Carey Show). In a fit of anger over the Knights trying to stop his TV special, the head of HBC says the word "shit" repeatedly, causing Geldon, a monstrous dragon, to awaken. After the dragon murders several on the set, Kyle destroys it with an ancient magical runestone belonging to a knight in the mystical Order of Standards and Practices. The moral of the story is not that saying "shit" in itself is wrong but saying it in excess leads to boredom with the word. Cartman tells everyone to watch their language, which Kyle and Stan agree on. The episode ends with Kenny accidentally saying "shit", spewing up his intestines, and dying; Stan almost says "Holy shit!" once more but replaces it with "poop".
It Hits the Fan : Executives at Comedy Central felt the profanity was justified by context and decided to allow the episode to be broadcast uncensored, which surprised even the show's developers. Despite broadcasting a record-setting amount of profanity, little controversy was stirred by the broadcast. Co-creator Matt Stone explained the passive reception by citing changing cultural standards, "No one cares anymore... The standards are almost gone. No one gives a shit or a bullshit." According to DVD commentary, they were only going to say the word a few times, which Comedy Central would not allow. However, when Parker and Stone came up with the idea that they would "say it like 200 times, they (Comedy Central) were fine with it." This episode was selected as #8 on Comedy Central's 2006 marathon of "10 South Parks That Changed the World".
It Hits the Fan : In 2005, the episode was listed at #93 on TV Land's "Top 100 Most Unexpected Moments in TV History."
It Hits the Fan : "It Hits the Fan," along with the thirteen other episodes from South Park's fifth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. "It Hits the Fan" was released on VHS in June 2002, along with the episodes "Scott Tenorman Must Die" and "Cripple Fight," on a video titled Insults to Injuries. A DVD version of the compilation was released simultaneously, and also contained "Proper Condom Use," in addition to the episodes contained on the VHS release.
It Hits the Fan : "It Hits the Fan" Full episode at South Park Studios "It Hits the Fan" at IMDb
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : Jack the Giant Killer is a 1962 American heroic fantasy adventure film starring Kerwin Mathews in a fairy tale story about a young man who defends a princess against a sorcerer's giants and demons. The film is loosely based on the traditional tale "Jack the Giant Killer" and features extensive use of stop-motion animation. It was directed by Nathan H. Juran and later reedited and rereleased as a musical by producer Edward Small because Columbia Pictures, which released The 7th Voyage of Sinbad, threatened to sue Small. The original print without the music was released 30 years later with no protest from Columbia Pictures, while United Artists continues to own the rights to the musical version of the film. The film reunited Mathews, Juran, Small and actor Torin Thatcher, all of whom had worked on The 7th Voyage of Sinbad.
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : In the Duchy of Cornwall of fairy tale days, an evil sorcerer named Pendragon rules over giants, witches, hobgoblins and other dark creatures. A wizard named Herla defeats and exiles Pendragon and his followers to an uncharted island. After Herla later dies, there is no longer a defense against Pendragon, who vowed revenge. Years later, the kingdom celebrates the crowning of Princess Elaine, the daughter of King Mark of Cornwall. Pendragon arrives disguised as a foreign lord named Elidoras and presents Elaine with a music box containing a miniature anthropomorphic dancing jester. That night, Pendragon peers into the sleeping Elaine's bed chamber and magically opens the music box, releasing the tiny jester. The creature grows into a hideous giant named Cormoran that the castle guards are powerless to stop as he abducts Princess Elaine. Cormoran takes Elaine to Pendragon's ship where a bumbling henchman named Garna is waiting. A brave young farmer named Jack rescues Elaine and slays Cormoran. In gratitude, King Mark knights Jack and appoints him Elaine's protector. As Jack and Elaine begin to fall in love, King Mark and his chancellor are concerned over Pendragon's looming danger. The King assigns Jack to guide Princess Elaine to a convent across the sea where she will be safe. The plan is thwarted by Elaine's lady-in-waiting, Lady Constance who, bewitched by Pendragon, reveals the king's plan to him. Pendragon sends demonic witches to intercept the ship. Amid the chaos, the ship's captain is murdered, and Elaine is captured. Jack wants the ship to follow the kidnappers, but the crew refuses and cast Jack and Peter, the captain's young son, overboard. At his castle, Pendragon bewitches Elaine into an evil witch loyal to him; Pendragon returns to Cornwall and confronts King Mark. Pendragon tells the king he has one week to renounce his throne so that Pendragon can rule with Elaine by his side. If the king refuses, Elaine will be killed. After Pendragon vanishes, King Mark realizes Lady Constance betrayed him. Standing before a mirror, she appears in witch form. King Mark smashes the mirror, freeing Lady Constance from Pendragon's spell. At sea, a friendly Viking named Sigurd rescues Jack and Peter. He introduces them to the Imp, a leprechaun imprisoned in a glass bottle by the king of the elves for having crafted seven-league boots from his pot of gold. The Imp (who only speaks in rhyming sentences) explains that his three remaining gold coins can each grant a wish to an honest person. Sigurd has possessed the bottle without being granted any wishes, indicating he is not honest. In exchange, Jack must free the Imp once the wishes are granted. Jack agrees, and the Imp guides them to Pendragon's island. With the first two wishes, Jack approaches Pendragon's castle and secures Elaine's release, unaware that she has been transformed. As they journey home, Elaine gives Jack a sleeping potion. When she touches the Imp's bottle, her evil nature causes it to grow hot in her hand and she reflexively casts it into the sea. Pendragon captures Jack and his companions and attempts to force Jack to reveal the Imp's whereabouts by turning Peter and Sigurd into a chimpanzee and a dog, respectively. Jack, however, does not know the Imp's location. When Jack is alone with Elaine, she reveals her witch form to him. With Peter and Sigurd's aid, Jack breaks free and smashes Elaine's mirror reflection, breaking the spell. As the friends flee the castle, Pendragon conjures a two-headed giant. The Imp's bottle has washed ashore, and he grants Jack's final wish by summoning a sea monster that kills the giant. Pendragon transforms himself into a hideous dragon and attacks the ship. Jack kills him after a fierce battle, causing Pendragon's castle to collapse, crushing Garna and the witches. Sigurd and Peter are restored to human form. As promised, Jack frees the Imp, who uses his magical boots to return to Ireland while creating a rainbow to guide Jack and the others home to Cornwall.
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : Kerwin Mathews as Jack Judi Meredith as Princess Elaine Torin Thatcher as Pendragon Walter Burke as Garna Don Beddoe as the Imp Barry Kelley as Sigurd Dayton Lummis as King Mark Anna Lee as Lady Constance Roger Mobley as Peter Robert Gist as Scottish Captain Tudor Owen as Chancellor Ken Mayer as Boatswain Helen Wallace (uncredited) as Jack's mother
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : The fairy tale had been previously filmed by Hollywood in 1917, 1924 (a short), 1931 (a cartoon) and 1952. Edward Small announced the film in 1959, saying he had developed the special effects over two years. Filming was originally meant to be started in September 1959, in 70-mm and widescreen, but was delayed several more years. Small hired star Kerwin Mathews, director Nathan Juran and villain Torin Thatcher, all of whom had worked on The 7th Voyage of Sinbad. Juran said: "Eddie Small was smart. He wanted to make some money. He tried to get as close to Seventh Voyage as he could. He thought he could cash in by doing another picture like it. Unfortunately, he couldn't get the same special effects." The film was shot on Catalina Island and at Goldwyn Studios, and shooting ended in August 1960. Juran divided the special effects duties between two companies: The Howard A. Anderson Company handled the photographic effects, while Project Unlimited, which had just won an Oscar for The Time Machine, supervised the stop-motion animation. Their team included animator Jim Danforth in one of his earliest jobs. Post-production took ten months, meaning the film was not released until 1962. Film rights would be litigated years later, and a musical version of the story was later released.
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : Response was generally positive during initial release, with praise for its similarity to the works of Ray Harryhausen. The film continues to maintain generally positive reception from contemporary critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, it holds a 78% score based on nine reviews, with an average rating of 6.6/10. Comparisons continue to be made between the film and the Sinbad trilogy by both positive and negative reviews, both sides largely agreeing the Sinbad films have superior visual effects. The film was also spoofed by RiffTrax.
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : Heroic fantasy List of stop-motion films Mystery Science Theater 3000
Jack the Giant Killer (1962 film) : Jack the Giant Killer at IMDb Jack the Giant Killer at AllMovie Jack the Giant Killer at the TCM Movie Database Jack the Giant Killer at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films Jack the Giant Killer at Rotten Tomatoes Jack the Giant Killer (1962) at DBCult Film Institute Prince Pendragon character information, and Jack the Giant Killer film synopsis at Villain Abode.com
Kajika : Kajika (カジカ) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Akira Toriyama. It was originally serialized in Weekly Shōnen Jump in 1998, with the twelve chapters collected into a single tankōbon volume by Shueisha. Although it has not been licensed for an English-language release, Kajika has been translated and published in several European territories.
Kajika : Kajika is the story of the title protagonist and his quest to return to being a normal boy. As a member of the Kawa Tribe (カワ族, Kawazoku), Kajika is extremely strong and has special powers. As a child, Kajika was very evil. His greatest known evil was chasing after a defenseless fox and smashing it with a giant rock. Upon being killed, the spirit of the fox cursed Kajika and Kajika was turned into a fox-man. Kajika was then kicked out of his village because of his monstrous appearance, and the only way to break the curse was to save the lives of 1,000 life forms. The spirit of the dead fox, named Gigi, decided to accompany Kajika on his journey. Upon saving 1,000 life forms, Kajika will go back to being a boy and Gigi will once again get its body back. After five years of saving life forms, the team only has ten more lives to save. One day, Kajika runs across a girl and saves her from a gang of bad guys. After defeating the gang, Kajika then uses a special power to remove all of their evil, turning them good. Kajika learns that the girl he saved is named Haya, and is told that the guys were after her because of the Dragon Egg she possesses. The Dragon egg is extremely rare and was stolen by the gang leader Gibachi from Ronron Island (ロンロン島). Haya then went to Sumakia and stole it from Gibachi. She then went on a quest to return the egg. Gibachi tries to kill Haya and recover the egg. Haya then asks Kajika to help her on her quest. As the three go to Ronron island we are told why Gibachi wants the egg so badly. There is an old saying that says if you drink the blood of a young Dragon, then you will gain incredible powers. No one is sure if this is true, but the baby dragon does have Dragomin in its blood which allows it to mature extremely fast. As the three set off, though, Haya makes up an excuse as to why she can not continue, but it is really because she fears Gibachi. So, now it is up to Kajika and Giri to return the egg, but it will not be so easy now that they are being hunted down by the world-famous assassin known as Isaza, who is also a member of the powerful Kawa tribe. Kajika is an extremely strong boy, but it is also revealed that being turned into a fox-man is holding down his true powers.
Kajika : Kajika (カジカ) Gigi (ギギ) Haya (ハヤ) Isaza (イサザ) Donko (ドンコ) Gibachi (ギバチ)
Kajika : Animerica Extra columnist Patricia Duffield stated that Kajika was regularly stocked in Japanese bookstores within the United States. She described Kajika as a highly entertaining adventure story due to Toriyama's easy-to-follow writing and comic style and for possessing "the art of a master of action".
Kajika : Kajika (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Killing the Dragon : Killing the Dragon is the ninth studio album by American heavy metal band Dio. It was released May 21, 2002 through Spitfire Records and was produced by frontman Ronnie James Dio. The album was reissued in 2007 in a two-CD package with Magica. It was remastered in 2019 and reissued in 2020 with updated album art and a bonus disc containing six tracks recorded live on the Killing the Dragon tour.
Killing the Dragon : In an interview on the TV show Uranium, Dio stated that the "dragon" of the album title refers to technology. He expressed concern with it threatening society in the future. Dio elaborated that the title track refers to "those who perpetrate injustices and what the world is doing to stop them. In fantasy tales, dragons were notorious for stealing children and feeding them to their babies. During the first part of the song, I sing 'Someone has taken a child.' The second part is about a cruel feudal lord. The third part is about 'electronic serfdom.'" He also expressed belief that the computer has become a god in modern society. "It is a small god with an electrical heart (...) It is time to rebel against it."
Killing the Dragon : Killing the Dragon introduces guitarist Doug Aldrich to the band. He had previously performed with Burning Rain and subsequently went on to join the band Whitesnake. Previous guitarist Craig Goldy co-wrote some of the songs before leaving the band. He returned for 2004's Master of the Moon. It is their final album with bassist Jimmy Bain.
Killing the Dragon : The song "Push" was a hit and had a music video that featured Tenacious D performing a humorous cover of Ronnie James Dio's biggest song from his time with Black Sabbath, "Heaven and Hell". Dio approaches them to tell them that he will pay them to play Tenacious D music. Apparently, according to an interview with Dio in 2005, during filming of this music video, Ronnie James Dio became friends with Tenacious D frontman Jack Black, who told Dio about his plans to make a Tenacious D film and asked him to perform in the film if anything became of it. In 2005, Dio received a letter from Black informing him that production of the film was starting and requested that he play himself. The video was directed by Bill Schacht (who has directed other videos for Alice Cooper, Amon Amarth, Sister Sin, Yngwie Malmsteen, Saxon, etc.) for Aestheticom. The video was listed as No. 54 most metal moment of all time on a VH1 100 Most Metal Moments show, hosted by Eddie Trunk.
Killing the Dragon : The song "Throw Away Children", from this album, was slated to appear in a sequel project to Hear 'n Aid but was aborted due to various reasons.
Killing the Dragon : All lyrics by Ronnie James Dio, music as stated. The "Limited Tour Edition" came in a slipcase with poster and added two bonus tracks. These bonus tracks are Ronnie James Dio performing live with Deep Purple and first appeared on Deep Purple's 2001 album Live at the Rotterdam Ahoy. The "Limited Tour Edition" bonus tracks were not included on the 2020 reissue. The 2020 reissue has a printing error on the vinyl and CD variants; the song "Guilty" is printed as "Guitly".
Killing the Dragon : Dio Ronnie James Dio – vocals Doug Aldrich – guitar Jimmy Bain – bass, keyboards Simon Wright – drums Additional musicians Scott Warren – keyboards on "Before the Fall" King Harbour Children's Choir — chorus on "Throw Away Children" Production Ronnie James Dio – producer Wyn Davis – engineer Brian Daugherty – assistant engineer Michael McMullen – assistant engineer Total Access, Redondo Beach, California – studio Eddy Schreyer – mastering at Oasis Mastering Marc Sasso – cover illustration
Killing the Dragon : "Push" video clip on YouTube
League of Dragons : League of Dragons is the ninth and final novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. It was released by Del Rey Books on June 14, 2016.
League of Dragons : Napoleon’s invasion of Russia has been roundly thwarted. But even as Capt. William Laurence and the dragon Temeraire pursue the retreating enemy through an unforgiving winter, Napoleon is raising a new force, and he’ll soon have enough men and dragons to resume the offensive. While the emperor regroups, the allies have an opportunity to strike first and defeat him once and for all—if internal struggles and petty squabbles don’t tear them apart. Aware of his weakened position, Napoleon has promised the dragons of every country—and the ferals, loyal only to themselves—vast new rights and powers if they fight under his banner. It is an offer eagerly embraced from Asia to Africa—and even by England, whose dragons have long rankled at their disrespectful treatment. But Laurence and his faithful dragon soon discover that the wily Napoleon has one more gambit at the ready—one that that may win him the war, and the world.
League of Dragons : Reviewing the novel for NPR, writer Jason Heller stated: "League of Dragons masterfully wraps up so many plot threads and loose ends that had built up throughout the previous eight books". Publishers Weekly agreed, describing League of Dragons as a novel "packed with action and excitement, drawing the series to a delightful and satisfying close ..." Kirkus Reviews was less enthusiastic in their review, stating: "Not the finest entry in the sequence, being slow to gather momentum and somewhat patchy, but overall a satisfying conclusion to a remarkable series." == References ==
Legendz : Legendz (レジェンズ, Rejenzu) is a Japanese multimedia franchise created by Bandai and WiZ in 2003. The franchise began with a manga created by Rin Hirai and illustrated by Makoto Haruno, first serialized in Shueisha's Monthly Shōnen Jump in Japan. The manga was published in English by Viz Media in 2005. The anime, Legendz: Tale of the Dragon Kings (レジェンズ 甦る竜王伝説, Rejenzu Yomigaeru Ryūō Densetsu, Legendz: Yomigaeru Ryūō Densetsu) is animated by Studio Gallop, directed by Akitaro Daichi, and aired on Fuji TV from April 2004 to March 2005. A pilot for an English dub of the series was produced for Hasbro, but was not picked up.
Legendz : The story opens with the discovery of the "Soul Dolls" which contain legendary creatures of incredible power within them. The Dark Wiz company (DWC) wants access to all of them for unknown reasons, but four of the Soul Dolls go missing. The majority of the anime takes place in Brooklyn, New York City, with the Brooklyn Bridge as a much-featured landmark.
Legendz : The Anime Encyclopedia: A Guide to Japanese Animation Since 1917 makes note of the similarities to Dragon Drive in the introduction of Shu and Shiron. It also notes the similarities to Pokémon except with dragons and director Daichi's "stylistic similarities" to Grrl Power. The manga review compendium Manga: The Complete Guide praised the "elaborate universe" and "quirky artwork", but noted that the creatures were "bland".
Legendz : Legendz Anime Site Legendz manga site Legendz: Yomigaeru Ryūō Densetsu (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
The Little Bull-Calf : The Little Bull-Calf is an English Romani fairy tale collected by Joseph Jacobs in More English Fairy Tales. Marian Roalfe Cox, in her pioneering study of Cinderella, identified it as a "hero" type, featuring a male hero instead of the usual heroine.
The Little Bull-Calf : The tale was collected by Irish linguist John Sampson from a Romani man named Gray, who named his tale De Little Bull-Calf, and published in the Journal of the Gypsy Lore Society. Francis Hindes Groome republished the tale and sourced it from an English-Romani teller. In another article from the Journal of the Gypsy Lore Society, T. W. Thompson indicated that Sampson's informant was a man named Johnny Gray, from a Romani family surnamed Gray.
The Little Bull-Calf : A little boy was given a little bull-calf by his father. His father died, and his mother remarried. His stepfather was cruel to him and threatened to kill the calf. An old man advised the boy to run away, and he did. He begged for some bread, which he shared with the calf. Later, he begged for some cheese, which he would have shared, but the calf refused. It told the boy it would go into the wild and kill all the creatures it finds, except a dragon, which will kill it. It told the boy to climb a tree, and once it was dead, to skin it and take its bladder, which would make anything it struck drop dead. With it, he was to kill the dragon. It happened as the calf said. Monkeys climbed the tree after him, and the boy squeezed the cheese, claiming it was flint; when they saw the whey, they retreated. The boy set out to find the dragon and kill it. He found a princess who had been staked out for the dragon. He killed it, though it bit off his forefinger. He said he must leave her, but first he cut out the dragon's tongue and the princess gave him a diamond ring. The princess told her father, who asked for him to come, and many gentlemen cut off their forefingers and brought diamond rings and the tongues of all kinds of beasts, but none were the dragon's tongue or the princess's ring. The boy came, but the king turned him away as a beggar, though the princess knew he was like the boy. Somewhat later, he came back, better dressed, and the princess insisted on speaking with him. He produced the ring and the tongue and married the princess. And they lived happily ever after.
The Little Bull-Calf : The tale was also included within The Red King and the Witch: Gypsy Folk and Fairy Tales by Ruth Manning-Sanders and A Book of British Fairy Tales by Alan Garner.
The Little Bull-Calf : Author Francis Meredith Pilkington published an homonymous tale in her book Shamrock and Spear, and sourced it from Ireland. In her tale, the hero is named Billy Beg, and he works in a king's stables. One day, the king's wife, the queen, sees the bull and wishes to have some soup made from the bull. Billy Beg escapes with the bull to the woods, and they live there, helped by the bull's magic, detachable horn that provides both with food. The bull still fights a dragon and dies, and Billy uses its bladder to fashion a magic weapon to kill the dragon. Later, Billy faces another danger: a giant man with an axe. With the help with a magic stick, obtained from the bull's other horn, Billy turns it into a sword, kills the giant and saves the princess. He then escapes on his horse and leaves a shoe behind, which serves to identify him as the princess's true saviour.
The Little Bull-Calf : One-Eye, Two-Eyes, and Three-Eyes (ATU 511) The Horse Lurja
The Little Bull-Calf : Unterberger, Gerald (2020). "L'Arbre du Bœuf: Mythenmotive in einem pyrenäischen Volksmärchen" [L’Arbre du Bœuf. Myth Motifs in a Pyrenean Folk Tale]. Iris. 40. doi:10.35562/iris.1303. S2CID 234513146.
Merlin Book 3: The Raging Fires : The Raging Fires is a fantasy novel by T. A. Barron originally published by Penguin in 1998. The Raging Fires is the third book in a 12-book series known as The Merlin Saga. This book was originally published as The Fires of Merlin, book three of The Lost Years of Merlin epic, a 5-book series providing a childhood story for the legendary Merlin, wizard of Arthurian legend. Wings of Fire, the once-sleeping dragon, now threatens Fincayra with his raging fury. Merlin, whose magical powers are new and unproven, is the only one who can stop him - though it could cost the young wizard his life. Before facing the dragon's fires, Merlin must confront several others: the dreaded kreelixes, who live to devour magic; the mysterious Wheel of Wye; the sorceress Domnu, who holds the treasured Galator; and perhaps most importantly and most challenging, those fires within himself.
Merlin Book 3: The Raging Fires : Dodds, Georges T. "The Lost Years of Merlin". SF.
Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid : Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid (Japanese: 小林さんちのメイドラゴン, Hepburn: Kobayashi-san Chi no Meidoragon), also known as The Maid Dragon of Kobayashi-san is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Coolkyousinnjya. The series began serialization in Futabasha's Monthly Action magazine since May 2013 until 2024 when it was transferred to Manga Action after Monthly Action ended and is licensed in North America by Seven Seas Entertainment. Four spin-off manga had also been serialized in Monthly Action and were transferred to Web Action. An anime television series adaptation produced by Kyoto Animation aired in Japan between January and April 2017. A second season titled Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid S aired between July and September 2021. A video game titled Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid: Burst Forth!! Choro-gon Breath was released in Japan in March 2022 and was released in North America by Aksys Games in August 2022.
Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid : As office worker and programmer Kobayashi gets ready for work, she is greeted by a large dragon right outside her front door. The dragon immediately transforms into a humanoid girl in a maid outfit and introduces herself as Tohru. It turns out, that during a drunken excursion into the mountains the night before, Kobayashi had encountered the dragon, who claimed to have come from another world. Subsequently, Kobayashi removed a holy sword from Tohru's back, earning her gratitude. With Tohru having no place to stay, Kobayashi offers to let the dragon stay at her home and become her personal maid, to which she agrees, having fallen in love with Kobayashi. Despite being efficient at housework, Tohru proves an unorthodox character, occasionally scaring Kobayashi and often bringing more trouble to Kobayashi's life than help. Additionally, Tohru's presence alone attracts other dragons, gods, and mythical beings to her new home. One of these dragons, Kanna, shows up at Kobayashi's door, demanding that Kobayashi return Tohru to the other world. It is then revealed that she'd been exiled from the other world, and having nowhere else to stay, Kobayashi takes her in and becomes her guardian. As both Tohru and Kanna settle into the human world, Kobayashi starts to think of them as family.
Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid : I Can't Understand What My Husband Is Saying, a series by the same author Komori-san Can't Decline, another series by the same author
Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid : Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid at Monthly Action (in Japanese) Anime official website (in Japanese) Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid at Seven Seas Entertainment Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid at IMDb
Monster Girl Doctor : Monster Girl Doctor (Japanese: モンスター娘のお医者さん, Hepburn: Monsutā Musume no Oisha-san), also known as Doctor for Monster Girls, is a Japanese light novel series written by Yoshino Origuchi and illustrated by Z-Ton. Shueisha published ten volumes of the series under their Dash X Bunko imprint. Seven Seas Entertainment has licensed the light novel series in English for North America. A manga adaptation by Tetsumaki Tomasu began serialization online in Tokuma Shoten's Comic Ryū Web magazine in February 2018. A second manga adaptation titled Monster Girl Doctor 0 began serialization in Shueisha's Suiyōbi wa Mattari Dash X Comic in July 2020. An anime television series adaptation by Arvo Animation aired from July to September 2020.
Monster Girl Doctor : Taking place after a long war between humans and monsters ended, the story focuses on the human Dr. Glenn Litbeit and his lamia assistant, Saphentite "Sapphee" Neikes, as they run a clinic in the city of Lindworm, which is home to many species of monsters living alongside humans.
Monster Girl Doctor : Glenn Litbeit (グレン・リトバイト, Guren Ritobaito) Voiced by: Shun'ichi Toki (Japanese); Griffin Puatu (English) Glenn is a human male from a merchant family from the far east, who specialized in medicines during the war. He strives to become a doctor for the monster population of the city of Lindworm. His calm demeanor and quick mind and focus allow him to treat everyone from a harpy girl to an immortal dragon; this tends to make him have a cadre of girls vying for his affection, much to the annoyance of Sapphee. It is implied he reciprocates Sapphee's affections, but cannot act on it until his clinic is paid off. He has some oni blood in his lineage, which results in him having a higher body temperature than nornal, allowing him to dress like it is summer even in the cold mountains. Saphentite Neikes (サーフェンティット・ネイクス, Sāfentitto Neikusu) Voiced by: Saori Ōnishi (Japanese); Cristina Vee (English) Glenn's childhood friend and assistant in the clinic who goes by the nickname of "Sapphee". She organizes the clinic and monitors the fairies that assist them. She is a rare albino lamia, so she has to wear a special outfit whenever she goes out into the sunlight. Her family were also merchants during the war, allying with the Litbeit family to aid the wounded and ensure medicine production on both sides. She was sent to the Litbeits as a political hostage, where she met Glenn and fell in love with him; however, her family are also well known assassins, and if the Litbeits were to betray them she was set to kill Glenn's family. She also has a low tolerance for alcohol. Tisalia Scythia (ティサリア・スキュテイアー, Tisaria Sukyuteiā) Voiced by: Sarah Emi Bridcutt (Japanese); Julia McIlvaine (English) A centaur who is the sole heiress of Scythia Transportation. A high ranked arena fighter, she was on a losing streak until Glenn realized her problem and was able to help her by giving her horseshoes. She is very open about her infatuation for Glenn and is not afraid to say so in public, mostly to annoy Sapphee, whom she considers a friend and romantic rival. Lulala Heine (ルララ・ハイネ, Rurara Haine) Voiced by: Yukiyo Fujii (Japanese); Ryan Bartley (English) A mermaid who sings at the Merrow Waterways in order to provide financial support for her family. Even while suffering from inflammation of her gills due to staying above and out of water too much, she continued singing. She saved a boy from drowning and Glenn saves her from drowning due to her gills. She develops feelings for Glenn after he saved her and treated the inflammation. Arahnia Taranterra Arachnida (アラーニャ・タランテラ・アラクニダ, Arānya Tarantera Arakunida) Voiced by: Yū Shimamura (Japanese); Wendee Lee (English) An arachne who is a fashion designer, sewing clothes with her own silk. She is a friend of Sapphee and has known her for a long time, and has made several of her sunblocking outfits due to arachne silk being very durable. Her skill is so good, she can do minute stitchwork swiftly and efficiently. She tries to seduce Glenn originally to get a response from Sapphee and Tisalia, but soon realizes that she has fallen for him herself. Skadi Dragenfelt (スカディ・ドラーゲンフェルト, Sukadi Dorāgenferuto) Voiced by: Atsumi Tanezaki (Japanese); Cherami Leigh (English) The chairwoman and head council representative of Lindworm. She was the dragon that was able to bring the humans and monsters together before they could destroy each other completely, bringing an end to the war and founding the city as an experiment to see if monsters and humans can co-exist. She is hundreds of years old, yet has the body of a young girl. She dresses head to toe in robes and a veil so few have seen her face, but they are used to hide a parasitic condition. Due to said condition she rarely speaks above a whisper, so her words are relayed by Kunai (in a very loud tone). Kunai Zenow (苦無・ゼナウ) Voiced by: Maki Kawase (Japanese); Lizzie Freeman (English) Lady Skadi's personal assistant and bodyguard. A rare flesh golem from the east, she was taken in by Skadi and became entirely devoted to her, and takes her job seriously. However, due to her nature, she has been known to lose parts if she is damaged. Due to how she was created, she is not fond of doctors and she can hear the voices of those whose body parts she is created from. While she is very proud of her warrior nature, her heart is that of a pure maiden, and she develops feelings for Glenn after he helps repair her during a mission. Now she goes to him whenever she needs to replace her stitches or parts, because as he helps her the voices are a lot quieter. Illy (イリィ, Irii) Voiced by: Sayumi Suzushiro (Japanese); Kira Buckland (English) A harpy who was captured by bandits and forced to lay eggs, which were to be illegally sold. However, she had an impacted egg from stress until Glenn helped her while Skadi and Sapphee held off the remaining bandits. Afterward, she and the others went to a nearby harpy village to live. Memé Redon (メメ・ルドン) Voiced by: Miho Okasaki (Japanese); Giselle Fernandez (English) A cyclops who works at the Kuklo Workshop. She has dry eye issues because hers is larger than the others; however, it gives her more clarity in very fine work such as detailing and making surgical instruments like scalpels and needles that the hospital and Glenn use. She was inspired by Skadi to try to make things people could use to live. She also likes wearing Gothic Lolita outfits created by Arahnia. While she seems to have feelings for Glenn, she often feels embarrassed when she get closer to him. Kay Arte (ケイ・アルテ, Kei Arute) Voiced by: Fairouz Ai (Japanese); Erica Mendez (English) A centaur who is one of Tisalia's attendants. She was a war orphan who was adopted by the Arte family, servants of the Scythia family. Lorna Arte (ローナ・アルテ, Rōna Arute) Voiced by: M.A.O (Japanese); Sarah Anne Williams (English) A centaur who is one of Tisalia's attendants. Like Kay, Lorna was a war orphan who was adopted by the Arte family. Due to her being more sensitive than Tisalia and Kay, she suffers from self-esteem issues and needs a more controlling hand than Kay. She is unknowingly into binding, which actually calms her down. Dione Nephilim (ディオネ・ネフィリム, Dione Nefirimu) Voiced by: Hisako Kanemoto (Japanese); Lizzie Freeman (English) A rare gigas who lives near the harpy village and sees Glenn for a head cold while he was performing examinations at the village. Due to her size, she moves very slowly and carefully so not to injure any smaller creatures, but every step causes earthquakes and landslides. Though young for her race, she still is hundreds of years old and has known Cthulhy and Skadi for a long time. She is friends with Illy, who goes to her mountaintop to visit her. Cthulhy Squele (クトゥリフ・スキュル, Kuturifu Sukyuru) Voiced by: Yukana (Japanese); Jeannie Tirado (English) A Cecaelia who is the head medical doctor of the Lindworm Central Hospital. Cthulhy is the mentor and primary teacher of both Glenn and Sapphee, and she had them start the clinic in order to expand their learning of medicine and to groom Glenn to take over for her one day. She has known Skadi for a long time, hinting that she is hundreds of years old, despite looking like she is in her 30s. She enjoys openly flirting with Glenn, much to the annoyance of Sapphee. Aluloona Loona (アルルーナ・ルーナ, Arurūna Rūna) Voiced by: Yō Taichi (Japanese); Cherami Leigh (English) An alraune who is a member of the city council. Second-in-command to Skadi, she is in charge of agriculture. She rarely ever meets with men, due to her race's nymphomaniac nature. Aluloona punishes would-be assaulters by giving them to her less restrained daughters; they don't survive. Molly Vanitas (モーリー・ヴァニタス, Mōrī Vuanitasu) The former shoggoth that was attached to Skadi. Once collected, she joined the skeleton of the former supervisor of the dead district and is working to make it a tourist attraction with the help of the undead residents. She uses a shovel as a weapon in order to keep the more unruly monsters in line. She is also highly interested in Glenn, but more as a lover than a mate. Sioux Litbeit (スー・リトバイト, Sū Ritobaito) Glenn's sister from the east who suffers from Demonitis. She began sprouting horns from her forehead, which proves her family has more than just human blood in their ancestry, which lead her to overheating if she becomes flustered or overexerts herself until Glenn was able to help her. She currently works in the red light district as a patrol member. She considers Sapphee as her sister, and is friends with Memé and Arahnia. Due to all the women flocking to Glenn, she takes it upon herself, by orders of her mother, to find Glenn the most suitable to be his wife.
Monster Girl Doctor : Nurse Hitomi's Monster Infirmary, a manga series with a similar premise
Monster Girl Doctor : Official website (in Japanese) Official anime (in Japanese) Monster Girl Doctor (light novel) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia Monster Girl Doctor at IMDb
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : PetroDragonic Apocalypse; or, Dawn of Eternal Night: An Annihilation of Planet Earth and the Beginning of Merciless Damnation (often shortened to just PetroDragonic Apocalypse) is the 24th studio album by Australian rock band King Gizzard & the Lizard Wizard, released on 16 June 2023. Recorded based on jam sessions, the album sees the band incorporating a heavy metal style. Lead vocalist Stu Mackenzie stated that the album's concept is "about humankind, and it's about planet Earth, but it's also about witches and dragons, and shit." Bassist Lucas Harwood has stated that the album is the first of two albums with a "Yin and Yang" concept, describing the two albums as "going to be very different sounding to each other, but we're going to try to make them complement each other." At the 2023 ARIA Music Awards, the album was nominated for Best Group and Best Hard Rock/Heavy Metal Album.
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : On March 4, 2023 the band debuted the song "Gila Monster" during their performance in Tilburg, Netherlands. Later that month, on March 12, 2023, they posted a video on their social media with the caption "New album locked and JOEDED," featuring a clip from what was presumed to be a new song. On May 7, 2023, they announced the album and artwork, which was described by the band as "a vivid, fiery painting of a lizard-like monster in an industrial, apocalyptic landscape." They called the music "heavy as fuck" and announced that pre-orders were starting on May 16. Alongside the pre-orders, on May 16, 2023, the band released the lead single "Gila Monster" with an accompanying music video and announced that the release date for the album would be June 16, 2023. Many critics noted the track was a return to the thrash metal of Infest the Rats' Nest, and despite that album being labeled as a "one-off experiment", the band "have heard the siren call of metal in the wind." On May 28, 2023, the band debuted the song "Converge" during the Boston Calling Music Festival. "Converge" was first released on the compilation Demos Vol. 3 + Vol. 4 under the title "Uncolonise". "Converge," "Supercell," and "Witchcraft" were played live in full ahead of the album's release, and "Motor Spirit" was played partially ahead of the album's release. The second single, "Dragon," was released on June 6, 2023, alongside a music video directed by Jason Galea. On June 8, 2023, the band played the album in full as intermission music between their two sets at Red Rocks.
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : Many people have noted and even called it a follow up to the band's thrash metal album Infest the Rats' Nest. Stu Mackenzie has talked about this similarity, stating:"When we made Rats' Nest, it felt experimental. Like, 'Here's this music that some of us grew up on but we'd never had the guts or confidence to really play before, so let's give it a go and see what happens.' And when we made that album, we were like, 'Fuck, why did it take us so long to do this?' It's just so much fun to play that music, and those songs work so well when we play them live. So we always had it in our minds to make another metal record."The recording was similarly done to the band's album, Ice, Death, Planets, Lungs, Mushrooms and Lava, where the band wrote a song a day with "no riffs, no tunes, no ideas, and started from scratch." Mackenzie explained how the band would put the songs together using the jams, which were all recorded. He also stated that for the lyrics and concept:"I'd sketched out the story the songs would tell, and I'd portioned it out into seven song titles, with a short paragraph of what would happen in the song. I guess we kind of made the record backwards."
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : The lead single (and first track performed live) "Gila Monster" has been described by critics as having "four-plus minutes of thrash-infused riffage and gang vocals" with the guitar solo in the last minute described as having "bleak, impossibly heavy shredding." The music video was directed by SPOD, who "wanted to shoot Lord of the Rings 4 but also make a video game, so I mixed both mediums and came up with this majestic journey for truth and power in a cursed world. I mixed 3D animation, modeling & live footage in a 3D video game program to create this marvelous voyage of man & beast. Friend or foe?" "Dragon" was released as the album's second single. It has been described as balancing their affinity for metal with their "gonzo psych weirdness." According to Galea:"Over the last two months, I dusted off my music video computer to slay the 10-minute "Dragon." I wanted to explore a harsh, distorted visual palette using my live visual setup mixed with PS1 cutscene-inspired animation and studio footage I filmed of the band. The animation was created using Cinema 4D and processed through After Effects and a Tachyons circuit-bent video unit."The album also contains a 14-minute bonus track, "Dawn of Eternal Night," featuring Leah Senior, available exclusively on vinyl. The style of Senior's calm narration over background sounds performed by the band is reminiscent of the interludes featured in the group's earlier album, Murder of the Universe.
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : According to the review aggregator Metacritic, PetroDragonic Apocalypse received "generally favorable reviews" based on a weighted average score of 76 out of 100 from 7 critic scores. A four-out-of-five-star review in AllMusic commended the performances, compositions, and lyrical themes on the album, concluding: "The stricter members of the metal community might see King Gizzard as interlopers with no real metal cred, but after Rats Nest and now this thrillingly massive album, there's no reason the band shouldn't be considered one of the best practitioners of the genre around."
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : Vinyl releases have tracks 1–2 on side A, 3–5 on side B, 6–7 on side C, and 8 on side D.
PetroDragonic Apocalypse : Musicians Stu Mackenzie – guitars, bass, vocals, synthesizer on "Flamethrower" and "Dawn of Eternal Night" Ambrose Kenny-Smith – vocals, synthesizer on "Flamethrower" Joey Walker – guitars, bass, vocals, synthesizer on "Flamethrower" Michael Cavanagh – drums, percussion, vocals, electronic drum kit on "Flamethrower" Cook Craig – bass, vocals, synthesizer on "Flamethrower" Lucas Harwood – synthesizer on "Flamethrower" Additional musicians Leah Senior – spoken word on "Dawn of Eternal Night" Technical Stu Mackenzie – production, recording engineer, mixing Joey Walker – recording engineer, mixing Jesse Williams – recording engineer Nico Wilson – recording engineer Joe Carra – mastering Artwork Jason Galea – artwork, layout, photography
Professor Sató's Three Formulae, Volume 1: Mortimer in Tokyo : Professor Sató's 3 Formulae, Volume 1: Mortimer in Tokyo is the eleventh book in the Blake and Mortimer series. It was written and drawn by Edgar P. Jacobs and was the last book of the series to be drawn by him.
Professor Sató's Three Formulae, Volume 1: Mortimer in Tokyo : At the international airport of Tokyo-Haneda, a 'spot' appear on air traffic controllers radar. The UFO (UFO) threatening air traffic, two aerial fighter planes take off to intercept him. They are then faced with a gigantic Ryū, the legendary Japanese dragon, and one of the pilots was just the time to inform its base until both are destroyed. While the news is spreading in the Japan, the Professor Akira Satō, specialist of cybernetics and robots, wondered about the upheavals that have animated his flying creature. Before revealing his involvement in this incident, he decides, against the advice of his assistant Kim to consult his friend Professor Philip Mortimer, currently the Japan. But his intentions are immediately reported to one mysterious submarine where controls none other than colonel Olrik. That same evening, leaving a show of kabuki in Kyoto, Mortimer is assaulted by a group of gunmen who take him to an alley. He manages to escape them and join his hotel, where he receives the message from the Pr. Satō asking him to come urgently to Tokyo. No train not leaving until the next day, Mortimer accepts the proposal of a leader of the Mainichi Daily News to take advantage of its business jet to reach the capital. When shipping, Mortimer recognizes the man who assaulted him at the theatre leaving the tarmac, which brings him to beware of the occupants of the plane and feint lose knowledge after having drank sake. As the men prepare to throw overboard, Professor catches them in defending themselves and a struggle agrees with to end the plane crash. Only survivor, Mortimer manages finally to reach Tokyo by bus and then by train. Arrivé hotel New Ōtani, Mortimer is greeted by Kim, the assistant to the Pr. Satō, who take him to his master's villa overlooking the Bay of Sagami near Miura. SATO announces to Mortimer that he managed to create autonomous flying androids, such the Ryū seen at the airport and Ozu, a Dead Ringer for the cybernetician. He explains he also doubts that the dragon accidentally escaped his laboratory and suspects his assistant Kim was behind that event. By security, he gives him power of attorney to access the three banks where he put away the results of his research: three formulas. Meanwhile, Mortimer is advised to appeal to his friend Captain Francis Blake of MI5, which is located in Hong Kong. But Kim, who has spied on their conversation, reports to Olrik, who decides to intervene immediately. The next day, Pr. Satō asks Mortimer to visit him at his villa. Once there, Mortimer is immobilized by Satō, who turns out be its dual robot. He is then neutralized by the Samurai robot controlled by Kim and Olrik. In a few days, the assistant manages to create an Android in the image of Mortimer to retrieve the three formulas of Satō. Olrik explained to Mortimer that he is part of the 'group Scorpio"which attempts to capture the Pr. Satō's research. The operation works perfectly for the first two banks but the robot has a major breakdown before the third. Olrik must wait for Kim to fix it but will have to deal with Captain Blake, who just arrived at the Japan.
Races of the Dragon : Races of the Dragon is an optional supplemental source book for the 3.5 edition of the Dungeons & Dragons fantasy role-playing game.
Races of the Dragon : This book contains info on two new races. This book offers a new race that works well with the Dungeons & Dragons sorcerers, a class that uses magical power derived from having dragon blood. The book also contains new prestige classes, feats, and spells.
Races of the Dragon : Races of the Dragon was written by Gwendolyn F.M. Kestrel, Jennifer Clarke Wilkes, and Kolja Raven Liquette, and was published in January 2006. Cover art was by Steve Prescott, with interior art by Steven Belledin, Ed Cox, Daarken, Wayne England, Emily Fiegenschuh, Carl Frank, Dan Frazier, Brian Hagan, Ralph Horsley, Chris Malidore, Jim Nelson, and Eric Polak. Gwendolyn Kestrel explains the inspiration for the book's material: "Dragons are a rich part of the Dungeons & Dragons game history. There's plenty of material in the game system to serve as inspiration. Of course, we wanted to go beyond what we had done before. While familiar with both Savage Species and Unearthed Arcana, I didn't directly go to these books for inspiration for Race of the Dragon."
Races of the Dragon : http://www.rpg.net/reviews/archive/12/12164.phtml
Raveleijn : Ravelin (or "Raveleijn" in Dutch) is a theatre at the Efteling amusement park in the southern Netherlands. It was designed by Sander de Bruijn at a total cost of 30 million Euros and opened its doors on April 8, 2011.
Raveleijn : Raveleijn is a multifunctional complex with, amongst others, a theatre, conference hall, restaurant and offices. The main part of Raveleijn is the arena where 5 shows (30 minutes) are performed per day. The open-air arena has a capacity of 1,200 visitors on a total of 1450 m2. The cast has 10 members and the music was composed by René Merkelbach and Het Brabants Orkest with vocals by Anneke van Giersbergen and others. The pen for the animals (5 horses, 1 owl, 1 falcon and 5 ravens) is located next to the parking area. Another main show element is a five-headed, mechanical dragon named draconicon.
Raveleijn : The story was written by Paul van Loon and tells the tale of the Woudenberg family of seven who move to the edge of a forest. The children discover an old city gate in the forest, where a tyrant oppresses the people. As it turns out, the five kids have the special gifts needed to fight the tyrant. This story has also been made into a Book, as well as a 12-part miniseries, where more of the plot is revealed. The show got an update from 30 April 2013 and after, still using the original tale, but with a new decor and some script changes. This new show is produced in partnership with the French theme park Puy du Fou which is renowned for its large open air park shows. Summary of the plot: The show starts with the father of the Woudenberg family, walking among the visitor seats saying he has lost his children. After that the main show starts, four of the Children (Thomas, Maurits, Emma and Lisa) walk up to the gate of Ravelin, read the text on the gate, and walk through it. They emerge again, now older, on horses and in armour. They meet up with their younger brother Joost, who says he had discovered the gate before them. Countess Halina warns them that a falcon is coming, announcing the arrival of the evil count Olaf Grafhart. The count emerges from the water and asks what they are doing in his city. Thomas, the oldest brother, says they are here to free the people of Ravelin of his rule. The count calls his guards, and when Halina stands up for the siblings, he makes her disappear. A fight ensues. When the siblings emerge victorious, count Olaf calls on his Draconicon, which emerges from the foliage. Thomas calls on his brothers and sisters to make use of their elemental powers, which they got from their weapons. After Draconicon is defeated, the siblings surround count Olaf and Countess Halina is returned. The count is driven back into the water by Halina, and disappears. The siblings go back through the gate, and emerge again in their normal clothes. Here they are also reunited with their dad, and the show ends.
Raveleijn : Press release Official website
Dragon Shiryū : Dragon Shiryū (Japanese: 龍星座(ドラゴン)の紫龍, Hepburn: Doragon no Shiryū) is a fictional character from the Saint Seiya universe created by Masami Kurumada. As one of the protagonists of this media franchise, he has made appearances in the several manga, the original anime adaptation, OVAs, films and video games. He has also inspired a large number of collectibles. Considered the most mature and wisest of the five heroes, Shiryū is the Bronze Saint of the Dragon constellation, whose Cloth possesses legendary defensive and offensive properties. Shiryū is one of the ten surviving orphans trained to become Athena's Saints by Mitsumasa Kido. With Kido dead, Shiryū and his allies become the protectors of his adopted granddaughter, Saori, Athena's reincarnation.
Dragon Shiryū : Out of the five main characters from Saint Seiya, Shiryū is the calmest and most collected. He greatly respects his master Libra Dohko, from whom he learned not only how to use his Cosmo to fight, but also fundamental wisdom for life. He trained at Lushan for six years under his tutelage, during which time he befriended the old master's protégé Chunli. In addition to possessing great physical strength, Shiryū owns one of the most durable Bronze Cloths. Having spent the last two and a half centuries under the mineral-rich waterfall of Lushan, it is harder than diamonds. It is also legendary for the shield on its left arm and its right gauntlet, endowed with powerful piercing capabilities, which have earned the Cloth its nickname as "the strongest fist and shield". In times of extreme need, the five main Bronze Saints are also allowed to temporarily wear Gold Cloths. In the Sanctuary arc, Shiryū used the weapons of the Libra Gold Cloth to free Cygnus Hyōga from Aquarius Camus's ice coffin. In the two battles against Poseidon and Thanatos, he wore the Libra Cloth. Shiryū sports the image of a green and white dragon on his back which is connected to his guardian constellation and only appears as his Cosmo is rising. Whenever his life is in danger, the image begins to fade. Once it completely vanishes, it is a sign that Shiryū's Cosmo has reached zero and he is dead.
Dragon Shiryū : As a Saint, Shiryu has been trained in mind and body to learn how to use the power of the Cosmos within his own body and use it for super strength, speed, agility, durability and reflexes. The constellation he uses for extra power is that of The Draco constellation, aka Dragon and by channeling his cosmos into the Dragon constellation using the cloth armor it's based on' he's able to combine his cosmos with the constellation's cosmos to increase his own power which he can use for cosmic energy blasts, heal himself and sense other people with their own cosmos. After he and his fellow bronze saints obtained the blood of the gold saints to repair their cloths when they were damaged they acquired even more power and upgraded cloths in the process, same for god cloth after their cloths were blessed by Saori aka Athena herself using her own blood as well.
Dragon Shiryū : In Japan, Shiryū is the most popular of the Saint Seiya protagonists, ranking first in the main characters poll of the five Bronze Saints. The Journal of Popular Culture noted the use of Shiryu's techniques where a dragon is seen alongside his fists as one of Kurumada's most striking illustrations in the Saint Seiya manga due to the style the impact has. Additionally, when Shiryu faces Cancer Deathmask, the writer addressed that Kurumada's message as seen through this fight scene is that people should still embrace violence based on what the aggressor has done, with Deathmask having attacked the innocent Chunli. Kenji Akabane considers the character both "cool" and "serious". DVDVisionJapan praised Hirotaka Suzuoki's work for making Shiryu sound like a "wise fighter". His fight against Seiya was also found enjoyable by the reviewer for the amount of violence that might be seen as fanservice and the dramatic considerations when the cast believe one of the two would die. Chris Beveridge from AnimeOnDVD liked the fight between Shiryu and Death Mask, calling it one of the most interesting showdowns from the DVD reviewed also finding a level of risk enjoyable due to Shiryu nearly falling to the Underworld. Mark Thomas of the Fandom Post criticized Shiryu's overuse of his Rising Dragon as he tends to repeat in all of his fights even when his enemies manage to block it. Similarly, in a review of the series, writer Jason Thompson notes Kurumada tend to make overuse of Shiryu's training so that in a latter fight, he remembers to use a more powerful technique in order to defeat his enemies. Thompson also felt that Shiryu healing Seiya through removing his blood too gruesome in that a similar action is repeated when Shiryu blinds himself to defeat a Silver Saint. IGN noted that Shiryu stands out for being able fight despite being disabled and is one of Seiya's closest friends despite initially clashing as enemies in the series' beginning. In regards to the Netflix series, HobbyConsolas warned long time fans not to expect the original violent battle between Shiryu and Seiya from the original series as a result of the demographic intended. == References ==
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings (Japanese: 創竜伝, Hepburn: Sōryūden) is a Japanese novel series written by Yoshiki Tanaka. It is loosely based on Chinese mythology. It was written by Tanaka in collaboration with illustrators Yoshitaka Amano (Kodansha Novels edition) and manga artist group Clamp (Kodansha bunkobon). It is written with a humorous and satirical tone. It published the 15th volume as of 2020. On July 24, 2008, at San Diego Comic-Con, North American publisher Del Rey announced that they have secured the license to the Sohryuden novel series. This would have been the first work by Yoshiki Tanaka to be released in English. This was projected to be released in 2009, but was seen on online bookstores as having a 2011 release date. Due to the closure of Del Rey, the release has been cancelled.
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : The story features four divine Dragon Kings, rulers of the four parts of the world according to Chinese myths. The brothers are reborn in the modern world, complete with supernatural powers and the ability to become the Dragons which are their true forms. They are content to live ordinary lives as long as nobody meddles with them. It becomes the mission of the four brothers to defeat the "Four Sisters", organization headed by four tycoons from America connected with the "Bulls" - enemies of the Dragons who have received ownership of the Western half of the world while the Dragons keep rule over the Eastern half of the world - before they use their control over technology and the economy to take over the world. However, as this battle begins, the four brothers must also find their place in the world as they flee from the destructive will of the "Bulls".
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : The contents to the 1st through the 6th volumes of an original novel serve as a base for the animation. Sohryuden has been released as a 12 episode animated series. Each episode is about 45 minutes. In the U.S., Central Park Media has released all of the series on both VHS and DVD. The new releases came out November 22, 2005. The anime was also released in the UK and Australia under the title of The Legend of the Four Kings by Manga Entertainment across six videos. The series was only released on VHS and is now long out of print.
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : The Clamp version was serialized as Mystery DX of Kadokawa Shoten in 1994. Intended to be a comedy, Owaru, one of the Dragon Kings, goes to Osaka to wakes snakes up. There are only three stories, and the story has not been concluded. As research, Clamp went to Osaka. The manga version by Clamp is quite rare and had been previously very difficult to obtain. Because of high demand from fans, the chapters have been compiled into a tankōbon format artbook under the title Sohryuden Genga-shu in 2004. Additionally, there is a manga short (only 4 pages) drawn for the Sohryuden drama CD, which had been included in Sohryuden Genga-shu. In 2004-2005, manga artist Kōji Megumi (恵 広史) serialized another manga version of Sohryuden as a comedy starring Owaru. Serialized in Magazine Special of Kodansha, it is Koji's debut work and has received positive reception and reviews. It was compiled into five volumes.
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : Hajime Ryudo (竜堂 始, Ryūdō Hajime) (Blue Dragon of the East) Voiced by: Hideyuki Hori (Anime), Shō Hayami (Drama CD 1), Mitsuru Miyamoto (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); Dan Green (CPM dub), Jeff Harding (Manga UK dub) (English) At 23, Hajime is the oldest of the four brothers and since the death of his parents and his grandfather, he is the guardian of the family. Extremely intelligent, Hajime taught History at Kyowa College but lost his directorship because of his uncle, Seichiro Toba. Generally, Hajime is very compassionate and will only lose his temper when he needs to - mainly when his family is threatened. Hajime is the strongest of the brothers and his fighting skills are exemplary. He has a close bond with all his brothers - enjoying the company of Tsuzuku, acting as a mentor to Owaru and being very protective of Amaru. Hajime is the Blue Dragon King of the East and controls the force of gravity in his dragon form. Tsuzuku Ryudo (竜堂 続, Ryūdō Tsuzuku) (Red Dragon of the South) Voiced by: Nobuo Tobita (Anime), Ryotaro Okiayu (Drama CD) (Japanese); Walter Barnes (CPM dub), Alan Healy (Manga UK dub) (English) The second brother at 19 years old. Tsuzuku is often seen as the pretty boy of the four brothers as he always attracts female attention, especially when he is at college. That said, he tends to be very humble about this. Well mannered, polite, and insightful, Tsuzuku keeps his attacks to irony and sarcasm and will only fight when absolutely necessary and has an impressive array of attacks at his disposal when unleashed. He also comes up with plans to help his brothers out of tight situations. He is very close to Hajime and often shares advice with him on numerous topics. He often enjoys banter with Owaru and is also protective of Amaru. He is the Red Dragon King of the South and, in his dragon form, controls fire (electro-magnetic and nuclear energy). Owaru Ryudo (竜堂 終, Ryūdō Owaru) (White Dragon of the West) Voiced by: Daiki Nakamura (Anime), Hideo Ishikawa (Drama CD) (Japanese); James Wolfe (CPM dub), Alex McSweeney (Manga UK dub) (English) The third brother at 15 years old. Owaru is the most energetic out of the brothers. He has a huge appetite and, in contrast to Tsuzuku, can never shy away from a good fight. Despite his rather confident and brash exterior as well as showing a disdain for college work, Owaru is a gifted student at Kyowa College. He sometimes displays signs of carelessness that often earns a lecture mainly from Hajime. He is the one most likely to engage in combat out of all the brothers and his athleticism and superb fighting skills always ensure that he comes out on top. Owaru often sees Hajime as a sort of father figure, given that he is the one he called for when he was in danger. He indulges in banter with Tsuzuku while he acts as a guardian to Amaru, more so then his brothers. He is the White Dragon King of the West which governs the air (wind and sound, as vibration of air). Amaru Ryudo (竜堂 余, Ryūdō Amaru) (Black Dragon of the North) Voiced by: Kappei Yamaguchi (Anime), Hikaru Midorikawa (Drama CD 1), Akira Ishida (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); Curt Gebhart (CPM dub), Paul Bailey (Manga UK dub) (English) At 13, Amaru is the youngest of the four brothers and appears to be the most vulnerable - in reality has astonishing powers. These powers aid the four brothers, especially when they are in human form. He is very gentle and caring and sometimes displays maturity beyond his years - more so than Owaru. That said, he looks up to Owaru as he always seems to get involved with everything Owaru does. His relationships with Tsuzuku and Hajime is usually based on him looking to them for guidance. Amaru rarely displays fighting tendencies but as the episodes go on, he shows us more of his skills. Amaru is prone to having dragon dreams from time to time and often has them prophesied by Hajime. Because of his youth he is more in touch with his dragon powers as he can't control it as well as his brothers. He is the Black Dragon King of the North which controls the water (and lightning). Matsuri Toba (鳥羽 茉理, Toba Matsuri) Voiced by: Sakiko Tamagawa (Anime), Yuko Mizutani (Drama CD 1), Naoko Matsui (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); Jessica Calvello (CPM dub), Toni Barry (Manga UK dub) (English) Matsuri is 18 years old and the cousin of the Ryudo family. She is greatly adored by all the Ryudos and she often adds a female touch to their household, cooking their meals and cleaning up their mess. She seems to have an extreme soft spot for Hajime, often hinting at a relationship between the two, though the two never step over the boundaries of morality. She enjoys the company of Tsuzuku and acts as a mother figure to both Owaru and Amaru. In return, all the Ryudos are very protective of her. Her father is Seichiro Toba, the self-centered and greedy head of education at Kyowa college and Matsuri is extremely contemptuous of him. Seiichiro Toba (鳥羽 靖一郎, Toba Seiichirō) Voiced by: Shin Aomori (Anime), Ikuya Sawaki (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); Wayne Grayson (CPM dub), Blair Fairman (Manga UK dub) (English) Seichiro is the father of Matsuri Toba, the uncle of the four Ryudo brothers, and the headmaster of the Kyowa Institute founded by Tsukasa Ryudo. Seichiro is driven by financial gain and wants to become head of all education in Tokyo and will stoop to any level to achieve it, even deceiving his own family. Matsuri is extremely embarrassed and contemptuous of him while, not surprisingly, he is disliked greatly by all of the Ryudo brothers despite being their uncle. Saeko Toba (鳥羽 冴子, Toba Saeko) Voiced by: Rihoko Yoshida (Anime), Atsuko Tanaka (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); Ami Shkula (CPM dub) (English) Saeko is Matsuri's mother and the long-suffering wife of Seichiro. She is the daughter of Tsukasa Ryudo, the Ryudo brothers' grandfather, making her the aunt of the Ryudo brothers. It is implied that Seichiro may have married her so that he could become the headmaster of Kyowa College. The Ryudo brothers are very fond of her and show her far more respect than their uncle. Tadayoshi Funazu (船津 忠厳, Funazu Tadayoshi) Voiced by: Chikao Ōtsuka (Anime), Oki Tamio (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); D.M. Moreland (1st, CPM dub), Jon Avner (2nd, CPM dub) (English) Known as "Gozen of Kamakura (鎌倉の御前, Kamakura no Gozen)", Funazu is an elderly man in his 90s with huge influence in the political world and the first major foe of the Ryudo brothers. He had known their grandfather for a long time and he became aware of his dragon powers. They both ventured to the Dragon Village known as Ryosenkyu (Dragon Springs) and while there, Funazu killed and drank the blood of a woman who resided there. He noticed a change in his system where he was immune to many weapons such as knives and bullets so he extracted the rest of the blood and had it injected into him over a period of time, expanding his lifespan. His presence in Japan meant that he was able to keep the Four Sisters corporation from influencing the Japanese government. He battles the brothers, where the Japanese army provoke the Dragon Kings. Patricia Cecile Lansdale (パトリシア・セシル・ランズデール, Patorishia Seshiru Ranzudaaru)/Lady L (レディL, Redi L) Voiced by: Keiko Toda (Anime), Saeko Shimazu (Drama CD 2) (Japanese); Vibe Jones (CPM dub) (English) Lady L is a secret agent of the Four Sisters corporation and a representative of the Mulligan Foundation, which is part of it. The Four Sisters corporation is an organization, which influences how governments in all nations are run. They tried to take over the Japanese government in the past but they were prevented by Gozen of Kamakura. She is American by birth but has Japanese blood in her, which she greatly detests. Her Chinese grandmother was raped by a Japanese soldier and her mother was born but they both were not accepted by Japanese society as they were of mixed heritage and were shipped out to America where her mother met an American man. As a result, Lady L decided to try and use the Ryudo brothers' dragon abilities to destroy Japan as the dragon represented 'good' in Japan. She is responsible for the transformations of Hajime, Tsuzuku and Owaru into their dragon forms. Shuhei Furuta (古田 重平, Furuta Shūhei) The 54-year-old MP of the Conservative Party who dies in a car accident. Kengo Takabayashi (高林 健吾, Takabayashi Kengo) A 53-year-old secretary of the government. Hatushi Tamozawa A sadistic surgeon who specializes in live dissection. He was Gozen of Kamakura's personal physician and would keep samples of his blood, believing it to be linked with the blood of the Ryudo brothers. He was a surgeon during the last war for the Canton Army and dissected over 80 prisoners. He was also responsible for Tsukasa Ryudo, the brother's grandfather, becoming ill for the rest of his life after catching Typhus Bacteria from a cloth that Tamaozawa gave to Gozen. He often clashes with Lady L, as she tries to assert the Four Sisters' influence over Japan, clashing with his desire for a scientific breakthrough regarding the Ryudos.
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : Sohryuden was animated in 12 episodes. The titles displayed are the U.K. version while the Japanese version titles are in brackets. Chapter 1 - Dragon Prophecy (The Four Brothers Under Fire) : Day-to-day life for Hajime Ryudo and his brothers is suddenly disrupted by kidnappings, assault and expulsion threats. As the eldest, Hajime realises that the prophecy of the Dragon King will soon become reality. Chapter 2 - Ancient Truths (The Legend of Dragon Springs) : Hajime comes face to face with the oppressive tyrant, Gozen of Kamakura, and learns of the ancient legend of the four kings. Offered a chance of complete supremacy over the city of Tokyo, Hajime must take a tough decision - one that could alter the brothers' whole existence. Chapter 3 - The Awakening (The Black Dragon King Revealed) : The Ryudo brothers, accused of murder, flee the city and fall straight into Gozen's trap. The Army, together with Gozen, launch a mass attack on the unsuspecting brothers to stimulate their transformation into dragons and use their powers to fuel Gozen's strength. Chapter 4 - The Masked Enemy (Tokyo Bay Rhapsody) : More than just fun and games are in store when the Ryudo brothers take a day trip to Tokyo Fairyland. They soon discover that they are wanted by Military Intelligence for their hidden powers and true ghost train horrors come to life when they are pursued through the fairground. Chapter 5 - Programmed To Kill (The Graceful Agent) : Dr Hatushi Tamozawa, Gozen of Kamakura's personal physician, thrives on dissecting human beings. Aware of the Ryudo brothers supernatural powers, he is obsessed with experimenting on them and sets out to capture them with his cybernetic hunting dogs. When the two youngest brothers, Owaru and Amaru, suspiciously win VIP tickets to the big league game, the evil doctor lures them into his cunning trap. Chapter 6 - Dragon Alliance (Skyscrapers and the Red Dragon) : The beautiful mysterious megalomanic Lady L, an extremely influential figure in Japan, will do anything to achieve world domination. Recognising the powers of the Ryudo brothers, she targets Tsuzuku, desperate to reach his inner soul and use his power to achieve her goal. Her proposition angers him and when the situation escalates, drives him to do exactly what frightens him most... Chapter 7 - Kill the Dragon (Revenge of the Four Brothers) : The media world is fascinated by the phenomenon of the Red Dragon which has attacked the cityscape. Unknown to them, the enraged monster is the transformed Tsuzuku Ryudo. The evil Dr Tamozawa is one of the few to have discovered the Ryudo's secret and, using his new generation cyborgs, he engages in a plan to kidnap Owaru for his scientific experiments... Chapter 8 - The Iron Dragon (Rampage of the Iron Dragon) : Owaru Ryudo is still captive at the lab awaiting dissection at the hands of the evil, butchering, Dr Tamozawa. The remaining brothers, relentless in their search for him, are being pursued by government agencies. Forced to flee, they steal a military tank in collaboration with a rebellious army captain eager for a slice of the action. The chase is on and time is running out for Owaru and his brothers to salvage the city of Tokyo... Chapter 9 - The Fierce Wind (Storm of the White Dragon King) : The ruthless Lady L has kidnapped Owaru and has held him captive in an electrified cage at the Yokota Air Base, ready to be transported to America. Hajime sets off on a lone rescue mission to try and free his brother but the attempt causes a disastrous airplane explosion on the runway. The trauma awakens the White Dragon of the Western Isles within Owaru and he begins to destroy the airbase and the town near it. Realising the awesome power of the beast may injure the innocent, there is only one way Hajime can control its power...but even that might be too frightening to conceive... Chapter 10 - Narrow Escape (The Brothers' Greatest Escape) : Lady L has more evil plans in store for the Ryudo brothers when she organises their arrest by the police. A replica of Hajime attempts to release the prisoners and in the process destroys the police station, having the Ryudo brothers branded as terrorists. The entire law enforcement agencies of the city are placed on emergency alert and are part of the biggest manhunt ever known. The Ryudo brothers are the innocent victims...the hunt is on! Chapter 11 - The Blue Dragon Soars to Heaven (The Soaring Blue Dragon King) : Hajime has become a captive of Lady L and is brought aboard the aircraft carrier, Dynasty. But waiting for him on board is the dissecting maniac, Dr Tamozawa. Tamozawa's cruel treatment summons the wrath of Hajime, and the fourth dragon finally emerges. The Blue Dragon King can control the force of gravity and it plucks the Dynasty and her fleet up into the stratosphere. Tsuzuku and the others, who have rejoined their three brave friends: Shinkai, Mizuchi and Nijikawa, escape Japan in a defense transport plane. But now they must find the Blue Dragon King! Chapter 12 - Four Dragons In the Heaven (The Four Dragon Kings Take To the Sky) : The defense transport plane that Tsuzuku and the others have stolen is in danger of crashing! Desperate to save Matsuri and their friends, Tsuzuku and his two brothers transform themselves into all powerful dragons. Meanwhile, the Blue Dragon King has travelled to America and begins to destroy all the military bases and facilities and finally targets his anger towards the US President. The other three dragons manage to reunite with Hajime but can their combined power overcome the spirit known as the Shiyu, an ancient enemy of the dragon race over 3,000 years ago? The world is on the brink of Armageddon as it enters the ultimate battle....
Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings : Sohryuden: Legend of the Dragon Kings (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Temeraire (series) : Temeraire is a series of nine alternate history fantasy novels written by American author Naomi Novik. The novels follow the adventures of Captain William Laurence and his dragon, the eponymous Temeraire, and reimagine events of the Napoleonic Wars with "an air force of dragons, manned by crews of aviators". His Majesty's Dragon, the first entry in the series, won the Compton Crook Award in 2007 and was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel the same year. Temeraire: In the Service of the King, an omnibus volume collecting the first three novels, won the Locus Award for Best First Novel in 2007. Temeraire was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Series in 2017.
Temeraire (series) : His Majesty's Dragon (2006) / Temeraire (UK) Throne of Jade (2006) Black Powder War (2006) Empire of Ivory (2007) Victory of Eagles (2008) Tongues of Serpents (2010) Crucible of Gold (2012) Blood of Tyrants (2013) League of Dragons (2016) Additionally, Novik published two omnibus volumes collecting the first three novels of the series. Temeraire: In the Service of the King (2006) won the Locus Award for Best First Novel in 2007. In addition the same first three books were published by Del Ray as In His Majesty's Service: Three Novels of Temeraire (2009). This omnibus volume also includes the Temeraire short story "In Autumn, A White Dragon Looks Over the Wide River". In 2017, Novik published Golden Age and Other Stories, an anthology of Temeraire short stories inspired by fanart of the series.
Temeraire (series) : The series revolves around William Laurence and his dragon Temeraire. Laurence is a captain in the British Royal Navy, serving in combat against Napoleon I's navy when he recovers a dragon egg unlike any other known to the British. The egg soon hatches, and Temeraire, a Chinese dragon, is born. Under the impression that an "unharnessed" dragon will become feral and unmanageable, Laurence becomes Temeraire's companion. Despite the difficulties this causes, Laurence begins to think of the dragon as his dearest friend. This forces a change in the officer's life, drawing him from the prestigious Royal Navy to the less desirable Royal Aerial Corps. The remainder of the original trilogy follows the adventures of Laurence and Temeraire as they do battle with the forces of Imperial France and the diplomatic fallout caused by Captain Laurence's adoption by the Emperor of China. The fourth novel, Empire of Ivory, deals with Laurence and Temeraire seeking a cure for a contagious disease introduced by a North American dragon, which spreads throughout the British dragons while Napoleon seeks to press his advantage. The fifth novel, Victory of Eagles, is the account of Napoleon's planned invasion of the United Kingdom, forcing a British retreat to Scotland, while Laurence faces the consequences of their treason in taking the cure for the illness to the French. The sixth novel begins within the penal colony of Australia (Laurence's death sentence for treason commuted to transport to the colony), and a chase across the continent to a sudden discovery that has far-reaching consequences. The seventh book has Laurence returned to service and sent to South America in an attempt to secure an alliance with the Inca Empire (which still exists, though reduced, in the series timeline), then to Asia again. In the eighth book, Laurence is partially amnesiac due to injury as Temeraire and the crew deal with new intrigues in feudal Japan and Imperial China before flying to Russia in time to be involved in the French invasion of Russia.
Temeraire (series) : In 2006, The Hollywood Reporter announced that Peter Jackson, best known for directing the Lord of the Rings film trilogy, had optioned the rights to the Temeraire series. Jackson stated that Temeraire "is a terrific meld of two genres that I particularly love—fantasy and historical epic. I can't wait to see Napoleonic battles fought with a squadron of dragons. That's what I go to the movies for." On July 24, 2009, in an interview with IGN, Jackson said he had considered making a television mini-series instead; he was worried that if the first movie flopped at the box office, it would put the story at a full-stop and leave it incomplete. On February 24, 2016, during Naomi Novik's Ask Me Anything (AMA) on Reddit, Novik said the film rights had reverted to her once again, and there is no plan for any Temeraire film adaptation.
Temeraire (series) : The Temeraire series on Novik's official website
Throne of Jade : Throne of Jade is the second novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series written by American author Naomi Novik. It was published by Del Rey first in the United States on April 25, 2006, and was published in the United Kingdom in August 2007 by Voyager.
Throne of Jade : The story is set during an alternate history version of the Napoleonic Wars, in which dragons not only exist but are used as a staple of aerial warfare in Asia and Europe. The dragons are portrayed as sapient and intelligent, capable of logical thought and human speech. The series centers on events involving Temeraire (the titular dragon) and his handler, William Laurence. The first book of the series centered on how Laurence, formerly a captain in the Royal Navy, becomes Temeraire's handler, and their early training in preparation for battles against Napoleon's aerial fleet.
Throne of Jade : After defeating Napoleon's forces at the battle of Dover, Laurence and Temeraire are confronted by envoys from Imperial China, including Prince Yongxing, brother of the Jiaqing Emperor. The Chinese are eager to recover their rare Celestial dragon from the British. According to Chinese law, Celestials are only allowed to accompany royalty; Temeraire was intended for Napoleon, Emperor of the French, while Laurence, a mere commoner, is deemed unworthy. This raises consternation within Government, as a Napoleon allied with China—the most powerful nation in the world, isolationist and able to keep other countries at bay through their superior draconic husbandry—would be impossible to oppose. After several failed attempts to convince Laurence and the Royal Aerial Corps to return Temeraire to China, the Chinese and the British agree to have Temeraire and his flight crew — including Laurence — accompany the Imperial envoys back to China. As the land routes are deemed unsafe, the Navy has a dragon transport, HMS Allegiance, captained by Laurence's former second officer Tom Riley, ferry the Celestial and his crew to China. During the voyage, attempts are made on the life of Laurence in order to remove him from Temeraire. In addition, political machinations on the part of the British, French, and Chinese are discovered that threaten the position of Britain in the East, as well as the stability of the Chinese throne. News of the defeat of the Third Coalition at the Battle of Austerlitz and subsequent death of Prime Minister William Pitt casts a pall over the voyage. Finally, Laurence has ongoing difficulties with both Captain Riley, a staunch supporter of the slave trade (Laurence himself descends from known abolitionists), and the diplomat Arthur Hammond, sent along to smooth the operation. During the sea voyage, Temeraire catches a respiratory illness from Volatilus, a slow-minded though sweet-natured Greyling serving in the courier corps who visits the Allegiance with dispatches. They stop at Cape Town, lately captured in the Battle of Blaauwberg, to look for a remedy. By use of a posset made using an extremely smelly mushroom, the cooks of the Chinese delegation are able to restore Temeraire to health. This event, though seemingly unimportant at the moment, shapes the next two novels of the series. After their arrival in China, Temeraire gets to meet his family, including his mother, and observes the conditions of dragonkind in China, which he deems far superior to British custom: Chinese dragons are citizens in their own right who, amongst other things, may take the Imperial Examination. He begins courting an Imperial dragon named Mei, and is exposed to a young boy of Yongxing's company, who attempts to befriend him. Laurence, for his part, attempts to learn Chinese, liaises with the French ambassador de Guignes, and suffers more direct attempts on his life, including confrontations with Yongxing and his companion, the albino Celestial Lien. Hammond is able to deduce that Yongxing has designs on Prince Mianning, the heir-apparent whose dragon is Temeraire's twin brother, and that Temeraire was sent to France not because the Chinese esteem Napoleon—indeed, the British are relieved to learn that the Chinese have no particular esteem for Napoleon at all, laying their greatest fear to rest—but so that Temeraire himself could not be used to complicate the line of succession. Indeed, Yongxing has had him returned to China so that Temeraire may lend legitimacy to a puppet king Yongxing intends to set upon the throne. At a theatre production in the British delegation's honor, Yongxing attempts to put his plans in motion, but is prevented by the actions of Temeraire and Laurence, and is himself killed in the ensuing scuffle. As a result, the Emperor of China himself adopts Laurence as an honorary son, at a stroke resolving the issues with Laurence's social status and easing relations with Britain. Temeraire, after much deliberation, decides to return to Britain, partially out of love for Laurence and partially to attempt to bring the greater civil liberties of the Middle Kingdom back to the Commonwealth.
Throne of Jade : Novik includes an allusion to the legend of Hua Mulan, or at least the Disney version: [Laurence's] dismay was evident, and Zhao Wei, perhaps feeling a need to defend his nation's unusual practice, proceeded to narrate the legend which was its foundation. The details were of course romanticized: a girl had supposedly disguised herself as a man to fight in her father's stead, had become the companion to a military dragon and saved the empire by winning a great battle; as a consequence, the Emperor of the time had pronounced girls acceptable for service with dragons.
Throne of Jade : Throne of Jade was released to positive reviews; SF Reviews described it as having "sumptuous locales, thrilling action, and thematic and emotional heft," while Bookmarks Magazine called it "a solid second entry in what is shaping up to be an intriguing series." Strange Horizons stated in their review that readers of the series "will find plenty to enthrall and captivate them."
Throne of Jade : Maclay, Robert Samuel (1861). Life Among the Chinese: With Characteristic Sketches and Incidents of Missionary Operations and Prospects in China. New York: Carlton & Porter.
Tongues of Serpents : Tongues of Serpents is the sixth novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. This installment follows William Laurence and his dragon, Temeraire's adventures in Australia. Tongues of Serpents was released in hardcover and e-Book formats in North America and the United Kingdom by Voyager Books on July 13, 2010.
Tongues of Serpents : The story begins in New South Wales, where Laurence has been sentenced to "transportation" for his treasonous actions in Empire of Ivory. With him is Temeraire; Captain Granby and his firebreathing Kazilik Iskierka; Tenzing Tharkay, his half-Nepalese friend; Tom Riley, captain of HMS Allegiance which sailed them hence; and three dragon eggs, sent by Admiral Jane Roland to form the foundation of New South Wales' Aerial Corps. Dropping by Van Diemen's Land to resupply, Allegiance discovered William Bligh, late of HMS Bounty, exiled there after being deposed in a military coup, and have since borne him to Sydney. Bligh wishes for Laurence to restore him to the governorship, whereas Colonel John Macarthur, architect of the rebellion, wishes them to stay on the sidelines, awaiting a decision from London. Captain Jeremy Rankin, last seen in His Majesty's Dragon, arrives on a mission to take command of the nascent covert and whichever dragon births first. It turns out to be the child of Arkady and Wringe, two of the Turkish ferals. Temeraire, speaking to the unhatched dragonet through the shell, attempts to convince him to reject Rankin as his handler, citing Rankin's callous mistreatment of his former mount Levitas, but the dragon accepts Rankin on grounds of his great wealth, giving himself the grandiose name of "Caesar" (after rejecting "Conquistador"). Laurence and Granby observe privately that the greedy Caesar and supercilious Rankin deserve each other. Macarthur sends Laurence on an expedition to find a pass from Sydney through the Blue Mountains, which the aviators readily undertake to stay out of the political fray; they are granted a crew of convicts to provide manual labor. Tharkay asks to join them, eventually revealing that he has been tasked with tracking down a smuggling ring that operates out of China — and not out of Canton, the sole Chinese port open to foreigners. The two missions unite when one of the remaining dragon eggs, a Yellow Reaper, is stolen in the night by aborigines, prompting a frantic pursuit across the continent. The unforgiving Australian desert, the unpredictable weather, and the local fauna, particularly the mythical bunyips, take a dire toll on the crew. While the thieves are obviously familiar with the terrain, the Britons are not, and it soon becomes clear that the bunyips possess the ability to alter the terrain, providing watering holes as bait, and later diverting water to create quicksand beneath Temeraire in the hopes of entrapping him. The final egg, an experimental cross between a Parnassian and a Cheqeured Nettle, hatches a sickly runt who is unable to fly. Rankin decides to do away with it humanely, but Demane claims it for himself, naming it Kulingile. Kulingile eats enormously, growing at a rapid pace, and eventually develops the buoyant sacs which help dragons to fly. These sacs are enormous enough to allow him to float, and Dorset, the dragon surgeon, announces that only dragonets destined to become the heaviest of heavy-weights ever exhibit negative total body weight in this way. This creates further difficulties for Demane, as officers who dismissed the runt to his care now envy him his heavyweight dragon and attempt to suborn Kulingile from him. The British finally catch sight of the thieves near Uluru and chase them northwards to the northern coast. There they find the source of Tharkay's smuggling ring: a port, operated jointly by the Larrakia people and the Chinese themselves, using trained sea serpents to ferry cargo from China. The Yellow Reaper is there as well; she has already hatched and bonded with the Larrakia, calling herself Tharunka, and declines to return to the Aerial Corps, though she is of material benefit in helping Temeraire establish diplomatic ties with the Larrakia. (As a Celestial, he has absolutely no trouble commanding the respect of the Chinese.) Laurence is relieved of the burden of reporting this when HMS Nereide arrives with orders to seize the port by force. However, the bombardment is completely thwarted by the Chinese, by the simple expedient of unleashing the sea serpents against the Nereide, and Laurence and the Nereide are politely but firmly asked to leave. Upon return to Sydney, Laurence discovers that Bligh's replacement, Lachlan Macquarie, is intent on fighting the Chinese over the port, which leads to another rebellion. Macarthur is reinstalled as First Minister of Australia, with him proclaiming the colony's loyalty to the King. Iskierka is ordered to Brazil to counter Napoleon's latest plans there, whilst Macarthur attempts to entice Laurence into taking a position with the nascent Australian government. Laurence refuses, merely seeking a quiet retirement with Temeraire in the Australian countryside. == References ==
The Unwanted Undead Adventurer : The Unwanted Undead Adventurer (Japanese: 望まぬ不死の冒険者, Hepburn: Nozomanu Fushi no Bōkensha) is a Japanese light novel series written by Yū Okano and illustrated by Jaian. It has been serialized online via the user-generated novel publishing website Shōsetsuka ni Narō since September 2016. It was later acquired by Overlap, who have published thirteen volumes since October 2017 under their Overlap Novels imprint. A manga adaptation illustrated by Haiji Nakasone has been serialized in Overlap's Comic Gardo website since November 2017, with its chapters collected into twelve tankōbon volumes as of December 2023. An anime television series adaptation produced by Connect aired from January to March 2024.
The Unwanted Undead Adventurer : Rentt Faina is a 25-year-old who has been a Bronze-class adventurer for a decade. One day while he is in the Labyrinth of the Moon's Reflection, he finds an undiscovered path. Unfortunately for him, he comes across a dragon's lair and is devoured. Sometime later, Rentt awakens as an undead skeleton. He soon begins a quest to achieve Existential Evolution so he can rejoin civilization.
The Unwanted Undead Adventurer : Rentt Faina (レント・ファイナ, Rento Faina) Voiced by: Ryōta Suzuki, Anna NagaseEp. 12 credits (young) (Japanese); Alex Hom (English) A 25-year-old Bronze-class adventurer who is eaten by a dragon, but later resurrects as an animate skeleton. He is noted to be a helpful presence in the town of Maalt, providing guidance and assistance for new adventurers. He is oblivious to the romantic feelings of many of his female acquaintances, particularly Lorraine. Lorraine Vivie (ロレーヌ・ヴィヴィエ, Rorēnu Vivie) Voiced by: Mikako Komatsu (Japanese); Corey Pettit (English) A high level magician, scholar and part-time Silver-class adventurer who allows Rentt to live with her before and after his resurrection to help him figure out his condition. She is in love with Rentt, tending to get jealous when he makes new female acquaintances. Sheila Ibarss (シェイラ・イバルス, Sheira Ibarusu) Voiced by: Ikumi Hasegawa (Japanese); Katie Caruso (English) A guild employee who helps Rentt with his adventurer work. She cares very deeply for Rentt. Rina Rupaage (リナ・ルパージュ, Rina Rupāju) Voiced by: Sayumi Suzushiro (Japanese); Abigail Blythe (English) A new adventurer whom Rentt rescues after his resurrection when she is attacked by undead. She repays the favor by buying him clothing to hide his monstrous ghoul body in Maalt. Mysterious Woman (謎の女性, Nazo no Josei) Voiced by: Saori Hayami (Japanese); Natalie Van Sistine (English) A very powerful magic user who tries to kill Rentt when he goes into an unknown area of a labyrinth. In compensation for her misunderstanding, she gives him some very rare magic items. Rize Dunner (ライズ・ダナー, Raizu Danā) Voiced by: Genta Nakamura (Japanese); Aiden Call (English) A young swordsman who Rentt sees in the labyrinth. He is in a party with Laura. He is put in a party with Rentt for their Bronze-class practical exam. Laura Satii (ローラ・サティ, Rōra Sati) Voiced by: Aya Yamane (Japanese); Lexa Childress (English) A young magic user who Rent sees in the labyrinth. She is in a party with Rize. She is put in a party with Rentt for their Bronze-class practical exam. Wolff (ウルフ, Urufu) Voiced by: Tetsu Inada He is the guildmaster for the city of Maalt. Alize (アリゼ, Arize) Voiced by: Yukina Shuto A precocious girl at the Maalt Orphanage. She appears to be around 10 years old and older than the rest of the children. She wants to become an adventurer and a magician. Lillian (リリアン, Ririan) Voiced by: Yūko Sasaki A sister of the Eastern Sky Church who runs the orphanage in Maalt. She is sick with Malaccumula, a disease that when she uses her divine magic, she gets a rebound effect of evil magic slowly building up in her body. It can only be cured by medicine made from the Dragonblood Flower that grows in a poisonous swamp. Edel (エーデル, Ēderu) Voiced by: Chihiro Takaoka A rat Rentt found in the basement of the orphanage. Edel became Rentt's familiar after he attacked and bit him. He appears to be able to use some of Rentt's magical abilities. Isaac Hart (イザーク・ハルト, Izāku Haruto) Voiced by: Shun'ichi Toki A male elf who Rentt meets while gathering the Dragonblood Flower in a poisonous swamp. Isaac works as a servant in the Latour household, one of the oldest and most respected houses in Maalt. Laura Latour (ラウラ・ラトゥール, Raura Ratoūru) Voiced by: Tomori Kusunoki The head of the Latour household. She seems to be a polite, albeit a little mischievous, young lady around 15 years old. Her family has a very extensive collection of magic items, monster parts and other very rare items.
The Unwanted Undead Adventurer : Rebecca Silverman and Lynzee Loveridge of Anime News Network reviewed the first volume of the light novel in 2018, praising Rentt's goal as "an interesting goal, and a hopeful one if you're looking for the potential harem romance that's lurking within the plot, and it does help to make this novel stand out in the crowded field of fantasy that draws directly from role playing games". They criticized the repetitive nature of the writing, but noted that it "does lessen as the book goes on, which is a very good sign for volume two". They concluded, "This isn't a perfect or particularly polished novel, but it is interesting enough to merit at least one more volume, because with the pesky set up out of the way, this could go places."
The Unwanted Undead Adventurer : Web novel at Shōsetsuka ni Narō (in Japanese) Official light novel website (in Japanese) Official manga website (in Japanese) Official anime website (in Japanese) The Unwanted Undead Adventurer (light novel) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Victory of Eagles : Victory of Eagles is the fifth novel in the Temeraire alternate history/fantasy series by American author Naomi Novik. The series follows the actions of William Laurence and his dragon, Temeraire. The book was released in hardcover in North America and the United Kingdom by Voyager Books on July 8, 2008.
Victory of Eagles : As the novel begins, William Laurence is gaoled aboard HMS Goliath, imprisoned against Temeraire's good behavior. Whilst aboardship, he joins the crew in fighting off the Grande Armée, who supported by the Armée d'Air are attempting to invade Great Britain. They succeed, and Laurence is reported to have been killed in action when Goliath is sunk. Temeraire, languishing at the breeding grounds at Pen y Fan, receives this intelligence and loses any desire to remain quiet and well-behaved. Instead, fired partially by patriotism and partially by vengeance, he organizes the many unharnessed dragons of the breeding ground into a militia, using promises of prizes as an enticement. Enlisting the breeding grounds' (human) supervisory staff as logistical support, he and the other dragons strike south to do what they can against Napoleon Bonaparte. This, of course, results in a merry chase: Laurence, who did not perish aboard Goliath, is mustered by Tharkay, now commissioned in the Aerial Corps, to bring Temeraire back under harness, and he arrives at Pen y Fan perhaps half a day after the dragons move out. The two are reunited outside of Harlesden, where Temeraire has already staged and won a decisive victory against a group of Marshal Lefebvre; in fact, Laurence is intercepted by a courier who is seeking out the commander of the militia (that is, Temeraire) with a colonel's commission. Laurence, Temeraire, and Temeraire's militia, almost instantly supplemented by Iskierka and her flock of Turkish ferals, regroup with the British Army at Harpenden, accepting his commission. General Arthur Wellesley, more freewheeling than most of the British high command, accepts the idea of Temeraire as an officer in his own right, treating Temeraire thereafter with all the rights and responsibilities of any colonel (including chewing him out when his command goes wrong, which to Temeraire's credit he takes to heart). Sir Hew Dalrymple Ross commands the defense of London, though Wellesley dismisses the effort as a lost cause, now that Horatio Nelson and his twenty ships have been sent to Copenhagen. Regardless, the effort is made, augmented by tactics created by Temeraire and Perscitia, a violence-abhorring but very clever dragon who (amongst other things) has been entrusted to operate the militia's artillery. Both sides involve about thirty thousand men, but this leaves the question of where Marshal Davout has got to; after the battle is joined, he is discovered outflanking the British with an additional twenty thousand. Only a brilliant action by Wellesley allows the British to escape. While helping the British Army in its withdrawal, Laurence and Temeraire speak with Wellesley about their notions of draconian equality. Laurence describes his own experiences abroad, visiting societies where dragons are treated as equal members instead of being harnassed and controlled by humans as British dragons are, societies that are materially enriched by this approach; and Admiral Jane Roland submits her theory that Napoleon has bolstered his own aerial corps by extending similar privileges to the ferals of the Continent. Wellesley agrees to open coverts to general use, and that the dragons might be paid directly the cost of their upkeep (around 400 pounds) to spend as they will. He also steals a page from Napoleon's book by using dragons as mass transportation for his soldiers; the dragons must leap-frog an hour back and forth, but a regiment can now move an extra twenty miles a day. Finally, Laurence and Tharkay must handle a distraction when Iskierka, impatient with the retreat, hares off into the arms of the French and becomes captured; the two sneak into London to exfiltrate her and Granby. This is an especially painful exercise for Laurence, as during the escapade he is detained by Bertram Woolvey, a man known to him from childhood, and his wife Edith Galman, with whom Laurence had once shared a serious but unofficial betrothal. Woolvey, for reasons he chooses not to share, helps them sneak into Kensington Palace and is slain during the escape. After regrouping at the Aerial Corps training grounds at Loch Laggan, Scotland, Wellesley and the British high command try to decide on their strategy, including the question of how best to safeguard King George III, who is not well. Roland announces that she and Adm. Collingwood have jointly repulsed another landing at Folkestone and sealed the English Channel against further incursion, stranding Napoleon on the British Isle. Wellesley promises victory and is given command. He then details Laurence, Temeraire, Iskierka and eight talon-picked dragons (mostly of Temeraire's former formation) into the English countryside, there to attack French foraging parties with the intent of starving out the Grande Armée, particularly the ever-hungry dragons, and reducing Napoleon's zone of control. Laurence's orders specify that no pitched battles are allowed, and no quarter is to be given, despite the British guerrillas having clear superiority in military strength; Laurence, understanding, demands that the rest of the formation receive written orders that they follow Laurence's commands without specifying what those commands may be, thus protecting the formation from culpability in war crimes. The mission is instrumental in accustoming the citizens of Britain to the presence of dragons, who are now defending them against the depredations of French foraging parties; despite the larger size of these resistance fighters, the British countryside becomes as protective of them as any other. Despite this, however, Laurence eventually decides to disobey orders and communicates this to Wellesley. Fortunately, Wellesley has judged the time ripe for battle and misconstrues Laurence's reply as an attempt to pass responsibility back up the chain of command. The British Army is deployed out to the southern bank of the mouth of the Thames, a questionable position which Wellesley knows Napoleon will not be able to resist. He commands the Coldstream Guards and Scots Greys to hold the center, whilst other elements support and, when the time is right, encircle Napoleon's forces. On the day of battle, the field is shrouded in mist, and Bonaparte presses his advantages. He has almost seized the day when the fog finally lifts, allowing Admiral Nelson and his considerable fleet, secretly returned from Copenhagen and waiting now in the Channel, to attack the onrushing French with full broadsides whilst the artillery pins them in place. As men and dragons are pounded into the earth, Lien takes wing for the first time, and uses the divine wind to stir up a tsunami which destroys the fleet, sinking every one of the ships, and killing almost all of the men, including Nelson. This serves to buy time for Napoleon to retreat, carried by Lien, but utterly defeated. In the aftermath of the battle things change for the better for the British dragons: using treasure won on the field they are funding the construction of their own pavilions. Wellesley, now in his familiar title as the Duke of Wellington, commutes Laurence's sentence to Transportation to the Colony of New South Wales (Australia); he is also to bring three dragon eggs to give the colony some aerial forces. The novel ends as he and Temeraire, accompanied by the irrepressible Iskierka, who demands an egg from Temeraire, are on board the Alliegance, sailing to their new fate.
Victory of Eagles : Due to the capability of aerial transport, Napoleon is able to successfully invade and occupy England. (The first book references the Earl of St. Vincent's quote "I do not say the French cannot come, I only say they cannot come by sea.") The occupation lasts for months. Arthur Wellesley is created Duke of Wellington as a result of the events in this novel, which is set in 1808; five years previous to the historical Wellesley. His character is depicted as stern and pragmatic, finding it practical to accept dragons and a female admiral but also to violate conventions of war to fight the French. The death of Horatio Nelson is altered, due to his survival of the Battle of Trafalgar in the books. Instead, he is killed in the mass sinking of the British fleet. Although the circumstances are different, the novel still depicts the national grief that took place. His historical anti-abolition views are referenced, as the character Laurence is a staunch abolitionist.
Victory of Eagles : Review by Thomas M. Wagner at SF Reviews.net
Warcraft: The Sunwell Trilogy : Warcraft: The Sunwell Trilogy is a collection of three volumes of OEL manga, written by Richard Knaak, illustrated by Kim Jae-hwan, and published by Tokyopop. The series is based on Blizzard Entertainment's Warcraft universe and follows the adventures of Kalec, a blue dragon who takes the form of a human to investigate a mysterious power, and Anveena, a beautiful young maiden with an enchanting secret.
Warcraft: The Sunwell Trilogy : The series opens with the history of World of Warcraft. A short introduction into the shaping of the universe up to the events leading to the rise of Arthas as the Lich King.
Warcraft: The Sunwell Trilogy : The official World of Warcraft website Warcraft: The Sunwell Trilogy at IGN.
Yona of the Dawn : Yona of the Dawn (Japanese: 暁のヨナ, Hepburn: Akatsuki no Yona) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Mizuho Kusanagi. It has been serialized in Hakusensha's shōjo manga magazine Hana to Yume since August 2009, with its chapters collected in 44 tankōbon volumes as of June 2024. It is set in an East Asian fantasy world, notably a fictional kingdom called Kouka, which made up of various regions and tribes, and also draws significant elements from both Korean and Chinese cultures. It follows Princess Yona, who flees her home after a coup d'état and embarks on a journey to save her kingdom. A 24-episode anime television series adaptation produced by Pierrot aired between October 2014 and March 2015.
Yona of the Dawn : 2000 years ago, the nation of Kouka was founded by the Crimson Dragon God (Hiryuu), who came down to Earth from the Heavens as a human, deemed the Crimson Dragon King (King Hiryuu). As a result, humans forgot about their god and became evil, seeking power. The Crimson Dragon King was eventually forced to fight against these humans, and just as he was about to be killed and the world was on the brink of extinction, four other Dragon gods, imbued with the dragon blood, joined his side as human warriors, and helped him. After clearing Kouka of evil, the Crimson Dragon King died. The four Dragon warriors mourned his death and walked separate ways from his castle, leaving the country to develop over the centuries into 5 Tribes: Sky, Earth, Water, Wind, and Fire. As countless generations flew by, this history became a famous founding myth. 2000 years later, the story commences with Yona, the sole princess of Kouka, ruled by her pacifistic father King Il under the Sky Tribe. Yona lives a lavish, sheltered life from the harrowing reality outside of the walls of the Crimson Dragon Castle, her only friends being her bodyguard Hak, general of the Wind Tribe, and Su-won, her crush of 10 years and the son of King Il's brother, Yu-hon. But contrary to this peaceful illusion, Kouka is once again on the verge of destruction and about to undergo a political upheaval. A week before a party celebrating her sixteenth birthday, Su-won visits to pay tribute to her. Upon revealing to her father her intention to someday marry him, Yona is shocked and dismayed when King Il forbids her from choosing Su-won as a husband. On the night of her 16th birthday party, Yona visits her father's chambers again, determined to change his mind. Instead, she walks in on Su-won driving a sword through King Il's chest, revealing that he would planned a coup d'état and would become Kouka's next King. Yona and Hak become fugitives and are forced to flee to Fuuga, the capital of the Wind Tribe. Under the suggestion of Hak's adopted grandfather and prior Wind Tribe General Son Mun-deok, Yona and Hak search for a priest of several expelled from the Sky Tribe capital by Su-won's father, Yu-hon. The priest tells Yona about the Crimson Dragon King and four dragon warriors who unified the nation. Guided by the founding myth, Yona begins a journey to find these dragon warriors in order to survive and save her country.
Yona of the Dawn : By February 2022, the manga had over 14 million copies in circulation. By June 2024, it had over 15 million copies in circulation. The manga placed first in Rakuten Kobo's second E-book Award in the "Long Seller Comic" category in 2024.
Yona of the Dawn : The Heroic Legend of Arslan, a long-running novel series with a similar premise
Yona of the Dawn : Official Hana to Yume Yona of the Dawn manga site (in Japanese) Official Yona of the Dawn anime site (in Japanese) Yona of the Dawn (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Dragonslayer : A dragonslayer is a person or being that slays dragons. Dragonslayers and the creatures they hunt have been popular in traditional stories from around the world: they are a type of story classified as type 300 in the Aarne–Thompson classification system. They continue to be popular in modern books, films, video games and other forms of entertainment. Dragonslayer-themed stories are also sometimes seen as having a chaoskampf theme—in which a heroic figure struggles against a monster that epitomises chaos.
Dragonslayer : A dragonslayer is often the hero in a "Princess and dragon" tale. In this type of story, the dragonslayer kills the dragon in order to rescue a high-class female character, often a princess, from being devoured by it. This female character often then becomes the love interest of the account. One notable example of this kind of legend is the story of Ragnar Loðbrók, who slays a giant serpent, thereby rescuing the maiden, Þóra borgarhjörtr, whom he later marries. There are, however, several notable exceptions to this common motif. In the legend of Saint George and the Dragon, for example, Saint George overcomes the dragon as part of a plot which ends with the conversion of the dragon's grateful victims to Christianity, rather than Saint George being married to the rescued princess character. In a Norse legend from the Völsunga saga, the dragonslayer, Sigurd, kills Fáfnir—a dwarf who has been turned into a dragon as a result of guarding the cursed ring that had once belonged to the dwarf, Andvari. After slaying the dragon, Sigurd drinks some of the dragon's blood and thereby gains the ability to understand the speech of birds. He also bathes in the dragon's blood, causing his skin to become invulnerable. Sigurd overhears two nearby birds discussing the heinous treachery being planned by his companion, Regin. In response to the plot, Sigurd kills Regin, thereby averting the treachery. Mythologists such as Joseph Campbell have argued that dragonslayer myths can be seen as a psychological metaphor: "But as Siegfried [Sigurd] learned, he must then taste the dragon blood, in order to take to himself something of that dragon power. When Siegfried has killed the dragon and tasted the blood, he hears the song of nature. he has transcended his humanity and re-associated himself with the powers of nature, which are powers of our life, and from which our minds remove us. …Psychologically, the dragon is one's own binding of oneself to one's own ego."
Dragonslayer : Media related to Dragonslayers at Wikimedia Commons
Apollo : Apollo is one of the Olympian deities in classical Greek and Roman religion and Greek and Roman mythology. Apollo has been recognized as a god of archery, music and dance, truth and prophecy, healing and diseases, the Sun and light, poetry, and more. One of the most important and complex of the Greek gods, he is the son of Zeus and Leto, and the twin brother of Artemis, goddess of the hunt. He is considered to be the most beautiful god and is represented as the ideal of the kouros (ephebe, or a beardless, athletic youth). Apollo is known in Greek-influenced Etruscan mythology as Apulu. As the patron deity of Delphi (Apollo Pythios), Apollo is an oracular god—the prophetic deity of the Delphic Oracle and also the deity of ritual purification. His oracles were often consulted for guidance in various matters. He was in general seen as the god who affords help and wards off evil, and is referred to as Alexicacus, the "averter of evil". Medicine and healing are associated with Apollo, whether through the god himself or mediated through his son Asclepius. Apollo delivered people from epidemics, yet he is also a god who could bring ill health and deadly plague with his arrows. The invention of archery itself is credited to Apollo and his sister Artemis. Apollo is usually described as carrying a silver or golden bow and a quiver of silver or golden arrows. As the god of mousike, Apollo presides over all music, songs, dance, and poetry. He is the inventor of string-music and the frequent companion of the Muses, functioning as their chorus leader in celebrations. The lyre is a common attribute of Apollo. Protection of the young is one of the best attested facets of his panhellenic cult persona. As a kourotrophos, Apollo is concerned with the health and education of children, and he presided over their passage into adulthood. Long hair, which was the prerogative of boys, was cut at the coming of age (ephebeia) and dedicated to Apollo. The god himself is depicted with long, uncut hair to symbolise his eternal youth. Apollo is an important pastoral deity, and he was the patron of herdsmen and shepherds. Protection of herds, flocks and crops from diseases, pests and predators were his primary rustic duties. On the other hand, Apollo also encouraged the founding of new towns and the establishment of civil constitutions, is associated with dominion over colonists, and was the giver of laws. His oracles were often consulted before setting laws in a city. Apollo Agyieus was the protector of the streets, public places and home entrances. In Hellenistic times, especially during the 5th century BCE, as Apollo Helios he became identified among Greeks with Helios, the personification of the Sun. Although Latin theological works from at least 1st century BCE identified Apollo with Sol, there was no conflation between the two among the classical Latin poets until 1st century CE.
Apollo : Apollo (Attic, Ionic, and Homeric Greek: Ἀπόλλων, Apollōn (GEN Ἀπόλλωνος); Doric: Ἀπέλλων, Apellōn; Arcadocypriot: Ἀπείλων, Apeilōn; Aeolic: Ἄπλουν, Aploun; Latin: Apollō) The name Apollo—unlike the related older name Paean—is generally not found in the Linear B (Mycenean Greek) texts, although there is a possible attestation in the lacunose form ]pe-rjo-[ (Linear B: ]𐀟𐁊-[) on the KN E 842 tablet, though it has also been suggested that the name might actually read "Hyperion" ([u]-pe-rjo-[ne]). The etymology of the name is uncertain. The spelling Ἀπόλλων (pronounced [a.pól.lɔːn] in Classical Attic) had almost superseded all other forms by the beginning of the common era, but the Doric form, Apellon (Ἀπέλλων), is more archaic, as it is derived from an earlier *Ἀπέλjων. It probably is a cognate to the Doric month Apellaios (Ἀπελλαῖος), and the offerings apellaia (ἀπελλαῖα) at the initiation of the young men during the family-festival apellai (ἀπέλλαι). According to some scholars, the words are derived from the Doric word apella (ἀπέλλα), which originally meant "wall," "fence for animals" and later "assembly within the limits of the square." Apella (Ἀπέλλα) is the name of the popular assembly in Sparta, corresponding to the ecclesia (ἐκκλησία). R. S. P. Beekes rejected the connection of the theonym with the noun apellai and suggested a Pre-Greek proto-form *Apalyun. Several instances of popular etymology are attested by ancient authors. Thus, the Greeks most often associated Apollo's name with the Greek verb ἀπόλλυμι (apollymi), "to destroy". Plato in Cratylus connects the name with ἀπόλυσις (apolysis), "redemption", with ἀπόλουσις (apolousis), "purification", and with ἁπλοῦν ([h]aploun), "simple", in particular in reference to the Thessalian form of the name, Ἄπλουν, and finally with Ἀειβάλλων (aeiballon), "ever-shooting". Hesychius connects the name Apollo with the Doric ἀπέλλα (apella), which means "assembly", so that Apollo would be the god of political life, and he also gives the explanation σηκός (sekos), "fold", in which case Apollo would be the god of flocks and herds. In the ancient Macedonian language πέλλα (pella) means "stone," and some toponyms may be derived from this word: Πέλλα (Pella, the capital of ancient Macedonia) and Πελλήνη (Pellēnē/Pellene). The Hittite form Apaliunas (dx-ap-pa-li-u-na-aš) is attested in the Manapa-Tarhunta letter. The Hittite testimony reflects an early form *Apeljōn, which may also be surmised from the comparison of Cypriot Ἀπείλων with Doric Ἀπέλλων. The name of the Lydian god Qλdãns /kʷʎðãns/ may reflect an earlier /kʷalyán-/ before palatalization, syncope, and the pre-Lydian sound change *y > d. Note the labiovelar in place of the labial /p/ found in pre-Doric Ἀπέλjων and Hittite Apaliunas. A Luwian etymology suggested for Apaliunas makes Apollo "The One of Entrapment", perhaps in the sense of "Hunter".
Apollo : Apollo is considered the most Hellenic (Greek) of the Olympian gods. The cult centers of Apollo in Greece, Delphi and Delos, date from the 8th century BCE. The Delos sanctuary was primarily dedicated to Artemis, Apollo's twin sister. At Delphi, Apollo was venerated as the slayer of the monstrous serpent Python. For the Greeks, Apollo was the most Greek of all the gods, and through the centuries he acquired different functions. In Archaic Greece he was the prophet, the oracular god who in older times was connected with "healing". In Classical Greece he was the god of light and of music, but in popular religion he had a strong function to keep away evil. Walter Burkert discerned three components in the prehistory of Apollo worship, which he termed "a Dorian-northwest Greek component, a Cretan-Minoan component, and a Syro-Hittite component."
Apollo : Unusually among the Olympic deities, Apollo had two cult sites that had widespread influence: Delos and Delphi. In cult practice, Delian Apollo and Pythian Apollo (the Apollo of Delphi) were so distinct that they might both have shrines in the same locality. Lycia was sacred to the god, for this Apollo was also called Lycian. Apollo's cult was already fully established when written sources commenced, about 650 BCE. Apollo became extremely important to the Greek world as an oracular deity in the archaic period, and the frequency of theophoric names such as Apollodorus or Apollonios and cities named Apollonia testify to his popularity. Oracular sanctuaries to Apollo were established in other sites. In the 2nd and 3rd century CE, those at Didyma and Claros pronounced the so-called "theological oracles", in which Apollo confirms that all deities are aspects or servants of an all-encompassing, highest deity. "In the 3rd century, Apollo fell silent. Julian the Apostate (359–361) tried to revive the Delphic oracle, but failed."
Apollo : Many temples were dedicated to Apollo in Greece and the Greek colonies. They show the spread of the cult of Apollo and the evolution of Greek architecture, which was mostly based on the rightness of form and on mathematical relations. Some of the earliest temples, especially in Crete, do not belong to any Greek order. It seems that the first peripteral temples were rectangular wooden structures. The different wooden elements were considered divine, and their forms were preserved in the marble or stone elements of the temples of Doric order. The Greeks used standard types because they believed that the world of objects was a series of typical forms which could be represented in several instances. The temples should be canonic, and the architects were trying to achieve this esthetic perfection. From the earliest times there were certain rules strictly observed in rectangular peripteral and prostyle buildings. The first buildings were built narrowly in order to hold the roof, and when the dimensions changed some mathematical relations became necessary in order to keep the original forms. This probably influenced the theory of numbers of Pythagoras, who believed that behind the appearance of things there was the permanent principle of mathematics. The Doric order dominated during the 6th and the 5th century BC but there was a mathematical problem regarding the position of the triglyphs, which could not be solved without changing the original forms. The order was almost abandoned for the Ionic order, but the Ionic capital also posed an insoluble problem at the corner of a temple. Both orders were abandoned for the Corinthian order gradually during the Hellenistic age and under Rome. The most important temples are:
Apollo : In the myths, Apollo is the son of Zeus, the king of the gods, and Leto, his previous wife or one of his mistresses. Apollo often appears in the myths, plays and hymns either directly or indirectly through his oracles. As Zeus' favorite son, he had direct access to the mind of Zeus and was willing to reveal this knowledge to humans. A divinity beyond human comprehension, he appears both as a beneficial and a wrathful god.
Apollo : The chief Apollonian festival was the Pythian Games held every four years at Delphi and was one of the four great Panhellenic Games. Also of major importance was the Delia held every four years on Delos. Athenian annual festivals included the Boedromia, Metageitnia, Pyanepsia, and Thargelia. Spartan annual festivals were the Carneia and the Hyacinthia. Thebes every nine years held the Daphnephoria.
Apollo : Apollo's most common attributes were the bow and arrow. Other attributes of his included the kithara (an advanced version of the common lyre), the plectrum and the sword. Another common emblem was the sacrificial tripod, representing his prophetic powers. The Pythian Games were held in Apollo's honor every four years at Delphi. The bay laurel plant was used in expiatory sacrifices and in making the crown of victory at these games. The palm tree was also sacred to Apollo because he had been born under one in Delos. Animals sacred to Apollo included wolves, dolphins, roe deer, swans, cicadas (symbolizing music and song), ravens, hawks, crows (Apollo had hawks and crows as his messengers), snakes (referencing Apollo's function as the god of prophecy), mice and griffins, mythical eagle–lion hybrids of Eastern origin. Homer and Porphyry wrote that Apollo had a hawk as his messenger. In many myths Apollo is transformed into a hawk. In addition, Claudius Aelianus wrote that in Ancient Egypt people believed that hawks were sacred to the god and that according to the ministers of Apollo in Egypt there were certain men called "hawk-keepers" (ἱερακοβοσκοί) who fed and tended the hawks belonging to the god. Eusebius wrote that the second appearance of the moon is held sacred in the city of Apollo in Egypt and that the city's symbol is a man with a hawklike face (Horus). Claudius Aelianus wrote that Egyptians called Apollo Horus in their own language. As god of colonization, Apollo gave oracular guidance on colonies, especially during the height of colonization, 750–550 BCE. According to Greek tradition, he helped Cretan or Arcadian colonists found the city of Troy. However, this story may reflect a cultural influence which had the reverse direction: Hittite cuneiform texts mention an Asia Minor god called Appaliunas or Apalunas in connection with the city of Wilusa attested in Hittite inscriptions, which is now generally regarded as being identical with the Greek Ilion by most scholars. In this interpretation, Apollo's title of Lykegenes can simply be read as "born in Lycia", which effectively severs the god's supposed link with wolves (possibly a folk etymology). In literary contexts, Apollo represents harmony, order, and reason—characteristics contrasted with those of Dionysus, god of wine, who represents ecstasy and disorder. The contrast between the roles of these gods is reflected in the adjectives Apollonian and Dionysian. However, the Greeks thought of the two qualities as complementary: the two gods are brothers, and when Apollo at winter left for Hyperborea, he would leave the Delphic oracle to Dionysus. This contrast appears to be shown on the two sides of the Borghese Vase. Apollo is often associated with the Golden Mean. This is the Greek ideal of moderation and a virtue that opposes gluttony. In antiquity, Apollo was associated with the planet Mercury. The ancient Greeks believed that Mercury as observed during the morning was a different planet than the one during the evening, because each twilight Mercury would appear farther from the Sun as it set than it had the night before. The morning planet was called Apollo, and the one at evening Hermes/Mercury before they realised they were the same, thereupon the name 'Mercury/Hermes' was kept, and 'Apollo' was dropped.
Apollo : Apollo is a common theme in Greek and Roman art and also in the art of the Renaissance. The earliest Greek word for a statue is "delight" (ἄγαλμα, agalma), and the sculptors tried to create forms which would inspire such guiding vision. Maurice Bowra notices that the Greek artist puts into a god the highest degree of power and beauty that can be imagined. The sculptors derived this from observations on human beings, but they also embodied in concrete form, issues beyond the reach of ordinary thought. The naked bodies of the statues are associated with the cult of the body which was essentially a religious activity. The muscular frames and limbs combined with slim waists indicate the Greek desire for health, and the physical capacity which was necessary in the hard Greek environment. The statues of Apollo and the other gods present them in their full youth and strength. "In the balance and relation of their limbs, such figures express their whole character, mental and physical, and reveal their central being, the radiant reality of youth in its heyday".
Apollo : Apollo often appears in modern and popular culture due to his status as the god of music, dance and poetry.
Apollo : Apollo at the Greek Mythology Link, by Carlos Parada The Warburg Institute Iconographic Database (c. 1650 images of Apollo)
Assipattle and the Stoor Worm : Assipattle and the Stoor Worm is an Orcadian folktale relating the battle between the eponymous hero and a gigantic sea serpent known as the stoor worm. The tale was preserved by 19th-century antiquarian Walter Traill Dennison, and retold by another Orcadian folklorist, Ernest Marwick, in a 20th-century version that integrates Dennison's texts with tidbits from other oral storytellers.
Assipattle and the Stoor Worm : The seventh son of a goodman, Assipattle and his family live on their father's farm, which is nestled in a valley under the hillsides of Leegarth. A lazy daydreamer, Assipattle is scorned by his older brothers and his parents but his sister, who he is greatly attached to, is more tolerant of his idle musing and slothful ways. Often neglected and usually dressed in the tattered hand-me down clothes from his brothers, his days are spent carrying out menial tasks but he would rather avoid work as much as possible. Frequently teased by his brothers, he habitually sprawls among the ashes at the fireside in the evenings, narrating tales featuring himself as a hero victorious in all battles. Assipattle's loneliness increases when his sister leaves home to serve as a maid for Princess Gem-de-lovely, the only daughter of the king, and his sole heir. Within a short time, the country is in turmoil as the evil stoor worm has arrived in the kingdom. A gigantic vile sea serpent, it is capable of destroying entire villages; the king is advised by a sorcerer that the only way to appease the monster is by feeding it seven virgins each Saturday. The citizens are outraged as their daughters are eaten by the stoor worm and insist the king finds an alternative solution. After seeking further advice, the king is told the only way to make the monster leave is to sacrifice the Princess; he is allowed time to find someone to slay the monster before she is sacrificed. However, one of his nobles demands that if the Princess is sacrificed and the sea monster still does not leave, then the sorcerer shall be its next victim, and the king's court agree with him. In a desperate attempt to save Princess Gem-de-lovely, who was loved by everyone except her evil step-mother, the king despatches messengers to let everyone know he will give his kingdom, the magical sword Sickersnapper that he had inherited from Odin and the princess's hand in marriage to anyone who can defeat the stoor worm. A messenger arrives at Leegarth, conveys the news to the family and Assipattle declares he will trounce the beast, drawing mocking responses from his father and brothers. Prospective heroes arrived but all shied away from the challenge when they saw the monster. The king is despondent on the night before the princess is due to be offered to the stoor worm and instructs his servant to ready a boat as he intends to fight the monster himself using the magic sword. Meanwhile, at Leegarth, the family were making plans to watch the demise of the princess; Assipattle was to remain at home but his parents were going to ride on his father's horse, Teetong, which had the reputation of being the speediest horse in the kingdom, to attend the spectacle. Assipattle overheard his parents discussing the instructions necessary for Teetgong to attain his full speed and once his parents were asleep, he crept to Teetgong's stable, mounted the horse and headed to the shore, arriving just as the sun began to rise. After stealing some hot peat from an elderly woman's cottage, he tricks the man guarding the king's boat into coming ashore and takes the boat. The stoor worm is just beginning to awaken and as it opens its mouth to yawn, the boat is carried down to the depths of the creature's stomach until it finally comes to rest. Assipattle plunges the still burning peat into the stoor worm's liver, starting a furnace-like blaze. The pain of its burning liver causes the creature to have a fit of retching that carries Assipattle, who has managed to return to his boat, back out of the monster's mouth. A crowd had gathered on the beach, and Assipattle lands safely among them. The ferocity of the fire burning in the creature's liver increases, causing smoke clouds to be expelled from its mouth and nostrils, turning the skies black. The islanders, believing that the world is about to end, clamber up a hillside to watch the final death throes of the creature at a safe distance from the resulting tidal waves and earthquakes. As it dies, the creature's teeth fall out to become the islands of Orkney, Shetland and the Faroes. The Baltic Sea is created where its tongue falls out, and when the creature finally curls up into a tight knot and dies, its body becomes Iceland. The king is rapturous the princess has been saved and gives Assipattle the magic sword before the conquering hero and the princess head back to the palace on Teetgong. Assipattle's sister runs out of the palace to greet them and whispers that the queen and the sorcerer were having an affair but had already left. Assipattle chased after the pair on Teetgong, killing the wise man with Sickersnapper and the queen was incarcerated in a tower for the rest of her life. True to his word, the king allowed Assipattle to have the kingdom and marry the princess. The festivities lasted for nine weeks and the couple lived happily ever after. The tale finishes with the sentence: "And, if not dead, they are yet alive."
Assipattle and the Stoor Worm : According to folklorists Jennifer Westwood and Sophia Kingshill, the name Assipattle translates as Ash-paddle, very similar to Askeladd (Ash-Lad), a character in Norwegian folk stories. The Sanday folklorist Walter Traill Dennison, who transcribed the tales, defines Ass as the local dialect for ashes and to pattle as similar to the up and down flailing movements a fish makes with its tail while attempting to escape if floundering at the water's edge. Tom Muir, an Orkney folklorist and author, translates Assipattle as "a person who rakes through the ashes". Other spelling variants, Ashiepattle, Aessi-pattle or Assie pattle, share a common definition of a Cinderella type figure, an unkempt, idle and uncared for child who spends a large amount of time huddled at the fireside and may be evolved from Old Norse. The name given to the magic sword, Sickersnapper, is defined by Traill Dennison as likely to mean severe biter; he adds further explanation that sicker equates to severe in an Orcadian dialect as opposed to meaning secure, the usage in the Scots language.
Assipattle and the Stoor Worm : According to folklore researcher Jacqueline Simpson the story of "Assipattle and the Stoor Worm" is classified as a dragon-slayer tale. She describes it as "almost pure märchen in style and content, apart from the local aetiologies"; folklorist E. S. Hartland stated it was "a purely Norse tale", demonstrating the triumph of bravery over adversity. Briggs also classifies it as a dragon tale describing the difference in size compared to the much smaller St George's dragon. Assipattle is the male counterpart of the Cinderella (Cinder-girl) stories, but is older and may be indicative of eras when inheritance was via daughters as opposed to sons. Hartland and an anonymous reviewer in the Saturday Review placed it as an Hesione tale.
Assipattle and the Stoor Worm : Traill Dennison recalled that when he was a child simple Orkney storytellers recited many variations of the tale. Two of his renditions were published: a shorter treatment in standard English serialised in The Scottish Antiquary magazine in 1891, and the full tale, sprinkled with many local terms annotated by Dennison, was reprinted complete with his notes in Douglas's Scottish Fairy and Folk Tales published in about 1893, and taken from a Traill Dennison manuscript. Marwick's 20th-century version is a composite, in his own words the "retelling of one of Orkney's best folk-tales", based primarily on the two texts recorded by Traill Dennison, and drawing from "the memories of the late J. Fotheringhame and other Sanday informants." Sir George Dasent also gave a version of the story but Assipattle was named Boots, which caused exasperation among Orcadians when they learnt of it. The Herald's anonymous reviewer describes the story as "Perhaps the most valuable contribution" in the book adding it is "delightful" and a "remarkably fine tale". Writing in the journal Folklore Hartland felt it was the "most important" of the tales taken from unpublished manuscripts.
Assipattle and the Stoor Worm : Notes Citations Bibliography
Beowulf (hero) : Beowulf (; Old English: Bēowulf [ˈbeːowuɫf]) is a legendary Geatish hero in the eponymous epic poem, one of the oldest surviving pieces of English literature.
Beowulf (hero) : A number of origins have been proposed for the name Beowulf.
Cadmus : In Greek mythology, Cadmus (; Greek: Κάδμος, translit. Kádmos) was the legendary Phoenician founder of Boeotian Thebes. He was, alongside Perseus and Bellerophon, the greatest hero and slayer of monsters before the days of Heracles. Commonly stated to be a prince of Phoenicia, the son of king Agenor and queen Telephassa of Tyre, the brother of Phoenix, Cilix and Europa, Cadmus traced his origins back to Poseidon and Libya. Originally, he was sent by his royal parents to seek out and escort his sister Europa back to Tyre after she was abducted from the shores of Phoenicia by Zeus. In early accounts, Cadmus and Europa were instead the children of Phoenix. Cadmus founded or refounded the Greek city of Thebes, the acropolis of which was originally named Cadmeia in his honour. He is also credited with the foundation of several cities in Illyria, like Bouthoe and Lychnidus. In ancient Greek literature, the end of the mythical narrative of Cadmus and Harmonia is associated with Enchelei and Illyrians, a tradition deeply rooted among the Illyrian peoples. His parentage was sometimes modified to suit, e.g. claims of Theban origin name his mother as one of the daughters of Nilus, one of the Potamoi and deity of the Nile river.
Cadmus : Cadmus was credited by the Greek historian Herodotus with introducing the original Phoenician alphabet to the Greeks, who adapted it to form their Greek alphabet. Modern scholarship has almost unanimously agreed with Herodotus concerning the Phoenician source of the alphabet. Herodotus estimates that Cadmus lived sixteen hundred years before his time, which would be around 2000 BC. Herodotus had seen and described the Cadmean writing in the temple of Apollo at Thebes engraved on certain tripods. He estimated those tripods to date back to the time of Laius the great-grandson of Cadmus. On one of the tripods there was this inscription in Cadmean writing, which, as he attested, resembled Ionian letters: Ἀμφιτρύων μ᾽ ἀνέθηκ᾽ ἐνάρων ἀπὸ Τηλεβοάων ("Amphitryon dedicated me from the spoils of [the battle of] Teleboae."). Although Greeks like Herodotus dated Cadmus's role in the founding myth of Thebes to well before the Trojan War (or, in modern terms, during the Aegean Bronze Age), this chronology conflicts with most of what is now known or thought to be known about the origins and spread of both the Phoenician and Greek alphabets. The earliest Greek inscriptions match Phoenician letter forms from the late 9th or 8th centuries BC—in any case, the Phoenician alphabet properly speaking was not developed until around 1050 BC (or after the Bronze Age collapse). The Homeric picture of the Mycenaean age betrays extremely little awareness of writing, possibly reflecting the loss during the Dark Age of the earlier Linear B script. Indeed, the only Homeric reference to writing was in the phrase "σήματα λυγρά", sēmata lugra, literally "baneful signs", when referring to the Bellerophontic letter. Linear B tablets have been found in abundance at Thebes, which might lead one to speculate that the legend of Cadmus as bringer of the alphabet could reflect earlier traditions about the origins of Linear B writing in Greece (as Frederick Ahl speculated in 1967). According to Greek myth, Cadmus's descendants ruled at Thebes on and off for several generations, including the time of the Trojan War.
Cadmus : The etymology of Cadmus' name remains uncertain. According to one view, the name originates from Phoenician, from the Semitic root qdm, which signifies "the east", the equation of Kadmos with the Semitic qdm was traced to a publication of 1646 by R. B. Edwards. According to another view, the name is of Greek origin, ultimately from the word kekasmenos. (Greek: κεκασμένος, lit. 'excellent'). Possible connected words include the Semitic triliteral root qdm (Ugaritic: 𐎖𐎄𐎎) which signifies "east" in Ugaritic, in Arabic, words derived from the root "qdm" include the verb "qdm" meaning "to come" as well as words meaning "primeval" and "forth" as well as "foot", names derived from it are "Qadim", which means "the elder one",─in Hebrew, qedem means "front", "east" and "ancient times"; the verb qadam (Syriac: ܩܕܡ) means "to be in front", and the Greek kekasmai (<*kekadmai) "to shine". Therefore, the complete meaning of the name might be: "He who excels" or "from the east".
Cadmus : Cadmus was of ultimately divine ancestry, the grandson of the sea god Poseidon and Libya on his father's side, and of Nilus (the River Nile) on his mother's side; overall he was considered a member of the fifth generation of beings following the (mythological) creation of the world:
Cadmus : With Harmonia, he was the father of Semele, Polydorus, Autonoe, Agave and Ino. Their youngest son was Illyrius. According to Greek mythology, Cadmus is the ancestor of Illyrians and Theban royalty.
Cadmus : The fact that Hermes was worshipped in Samothrace under the name of Cadmus or Cadmilus seems to show that the Theban Cadmus was interpreted as an ancestral Theban hero corresponding to the Samothracians. Another Samothracian connection for Cadmus is offered via his wife Harmonia, who is said by Diodorus Siculus to be daughter of Zeus and Electra and of Samothracian birth.
Cadmus : The Syrian city of Al-Qadmus is named after Cadmus. E. Nesbit's 1901 novel The Wouldbegoods includes an episode in which the children protagonists sow what they believe are dragon's teeth, and the next day, "just like Cadmus," they find an encampment of soldiers there.
Cadmus : Cadmean victory Cadmean vixen Cadmium Cadmus of Miletus Theban kings in Greek mythology
Cadmus : Calasso, Roberto (1993). The Marriage of Cadmus and Harmony. New York: Knopf. ISBN 0-394-58154-7.
Cadmus : Cadmus in painting
Daniel (biblical figure) : Daniel (Aramaic and Hebrew: דָּנִיֵּאל, romanized: Dānīyyēʾl, lit. 'God is my Judge'; Greek: Δανιήλ, romanized: Daniḗl; Arabic: دانيال, romanized: Dāniyāl) is the main character of the Book of Daniel. According to the Hebrew Bible, Daniel was a noble Jewish youth of Jerusalem taken into captivity by Nebuchadnezzar II of Babylon, serving the king and his successors with loyalty and ability until the time of the Persian conqueror Cyrus, all the while remaining true to the God of Israel. While some conservative scholars hold that Daniel existed and his book was written in the 6th century BCE, most scholars agree that Daniel is not a historical figure and that much of the book is a cryptic allusion to the reign of the 2nd century BCE Hellenistic king Antiochus IV Epiphanes. Six cities claim the Tomb of Daniel, the most famous being that in Susa, in southern Iran, at a site known as Shush-e Daniyal. He is not a prophet in Judaism, but the rabbis reckoned him to be the most distinguished member of the Babylonian diaspora, unsurpassed in piety and good deeds, firm in his adherence to the Law despite being surrounded by enemies who sought his ruin, and in the first few centuries CE they wrote down the many legends that had grown up around his name. He is considered a prophet in Christianity, and although he is not mentioned in the Quran, Muslim sources describe him as a prophet.
Daniel (biblical figure) : Daniel's name means "God (El) is my judge". While the best known Daniel is the hero of the Book of Daniel who interprets dreams and receives apocalyptic visions, the Bible also briefly mentions three other individuals of this name: The Book of Ezekiel (14:14, 14:20 and 28:3) refers to a legendary Daniel famed for wisdom and righteousness. In verse 14:14, Ezekiel says of the sinful land of Israel that "even if these three, Noah, Daniel and Job, were in it, they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness." In chapter 28, Ezekiel taunts the king of Tyre, asking rhetorically, "art thou wiser than Daniel?" The author of the Book of Daniel appears to have taken this legendary figure, renowned for his wisdom, to serve as his central human character. The Book of Ezra (8:2) mentions a priest named Daniel who went from Babylon to Jerusalem with Ezra. The First Book of Chronicles (3:1) mentions a son of David called Daniel. Daniel (Dn'il, or Danel) is also the name of a figure in the Aqhat legend from Ugarit. (Ugarit was a Canaanite city destroyed around 1200 BCE – the tablet containing the story is dated c. 1360 BCE.) This legendary Daniel is known for his righteousness and wisdom and a follower of the god El (hence his name), who made the god’s will known through dreams and visions. It is unlikely that Ezekiel knew the far older Canaanite legend, but it seems reasonable to suppose that some connection exists between the two. The authors of the tales in the first half of the Book of Daniel were likely also unaware of the Ugaritic Daniel and probably took the name of their hero from Ezekiel; the author of the visions in the second half in turn took his hero's name from the tales. Some scholars have suggested identifying the Daniel character in Ezekiel 28 with King David's son Daniel.
Daniel (biblical figure) : The Book of Daniel begins with an introduction telling how Daniel and his companions came to be in Babylon, followed by a set of tales set in the Babylonian and Persian courts in the late 7th and early 6th centuries BCE, followed in turn by a set of visions in which Daniel sees the remote future of the world and of Israel. The tales in chapters 1–6 can be dated to the 3rd or early 2nd centuries BCE; it is generally accepted that these were expanded by the addition of the visions in chapters 8–12 between 167 and 164 BCE. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, Daniel and his friends Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah are taken to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. The four are chosen for their intellect and beauty to be trained in the Babylonian court, and are given new names. Daniel is given the Babylonian name Belteshazzar (Akkadian: 𒊩𒆪𒈗𒋀, romanized: Beltu-šar-uṣur, written as NIN9.LUGAL.ŠEŠ), while his companions are given the Babylonian names Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Daniel and his friends refuse the food and wine provided by the king of Babylon to avoid becoming defiled. They receive wisdom from God and surpass "all the magicians and enchanters of the kingdom." Nebuchadnezzar dreams of a giant statue made of four metals with feet of mingled iron and clay, smashed by a stone from heaven. Only Daniel is able to interpret it: the dream signifies four kingdoms, of which Babylon is the first, but God will destroy them and replace them with his own kingdom. Nebuchadnezzar dreams of a great tree that shelters all the world and of a heavenly figure who decrees that the tree will be destroyed; again, only Daniel can interpret the dream, which concerns the sovereignty of God over the kings of the earth. When Nebuchadnezzar's son Belshazzar uses consecrated vessels from the Jewish temple as serving vessels for his extravagant feast, a hand appears and writes a mysterious message on a wall, which only Daniel can interpret; it tells the king that his kingdom will be given to the Medes and Persians, because Belshazzar, unlike Nebuchadnezzar, has not acknowledged the sovereignty of the God of Daniel. The Medes and Persians overthrow Nebuchadnezzar and the new king, Darius the Mede, appoints Daniel to high authority. Jealous rivals attempt to destroy Daniel with an accusation that he worships God instead of the king, and Daniel is thrown into a den of lions, but an angel saves him, his accusers are destroyed, and Daniel is restored to his position. In the third year of Darius, Daniel has a series of visions. In the first, four beasts come out of the sea, the last with ten horns, and an eleventh horn grows and achieves dominion over the Earth and the "Ancient of Days" (God) gives dominion to "one like a son of man". An angel interprets the vision. In the second, a ram with two horns is attacked by a goat with one horn; the one horn breaks and is replaced by four. A little horn arises and attacks the people of God and the temple, and Daniel is informed how long the little horn's dominion will endure. In the third, Daniel is troubled to read in holy scripture (the book is not named but appears to be Jeremiah) that Jerusalem would be desolate for 70 years. Daniel repents on behalf of the Jews and requests that Jerusalem and its people be restored. An angel refers to a period of 70 sevens (or weeks) of years. In the final vision, Daniel sees a period of history culminating in a struggle between the "king of the north" and the "king of the south" in which God's people suffer terribly; an angel explains that in the end the righteous will be vindicated and God's kingdom will be established on Earth.
Daniel (biblical figure) : The Greek text of Daniel contains three additional tales, two of which feature Daniel (the third is an expansion of the tale of the fiery furnace). The tale of Susanna tells how Daniel saves the reputation of a young Jewish married woman when two lecherous Jewish elders condemn her to death, supposedly for unchastity, but actually because she resisted their advances. Daniel's clever cross-examination unmasks their evil and leads to their deaths. The story is unique in that the villains are Jews instead of heathens; it may have been written as a polemic by the Pharisees against the Saducees, who, according to their opponents, were abusing their control of the courts. Bel and the Dragon consists of two episodes. In the first Daniel exposes the deceptions of the heathen priests, who have been pretending that their idols eat and drink (in fact it is the priests who have been consuming the food set out for the false gods). In the second Daniel destroys a giant serpent that Cyrus believes to be a god; the Babylonians revolt, Cyrus imprisons Daniel without food, the prophet Habakkuk miraculously feeds him, and Cyrus repents.
Daniel (biblical figure) : The last mention of Daniel in the Book of Daniel is in the third year of Cyrus (Daniel 10:1). Rabbinic sources suppose that he was still alive during the reign of the Persian king Ahasuerus (better known as Artaxerxes – Babylonian Talmud, Megillah 15a, based on the Book of Esther 4, 5), but he was killed by Haman, the wicked prime minister of Ahasuerus (Targum Sheini on Esther, 4, 11). The 1st century Jewish writer Josephus reported that Daniel's body lay in a tower in Ecbatana in Parthia, alongside the bodies of the kings of the Medes and Persians; later Jewish authorities said he was buried in Susa, and that near his house were hidden the vessels from the Temple of Solomon. Muslim sources reported that the Muslims had discovered his body, or possibly only a box containing his nerves and veins, together with a book, a jar of fat, and a signet ring engraved with the image of a man being licked by two lions. The corpse was reburied, and those who buried it were decapitated to prevent them from revealing the spot. Today six cities claim Daniel's Tomb: Babylon, Kirkuk and Muqdadiyah in Iraq, Susa and Malamir in Iran, and Samarkand in Uzbekistan. The most famous is that in Susa, (Shush, in southern Iran), at a site known as Shush-e Daniyal. According to Jewish tradition the rich and poor of the city quarreled over possession of the body, and the bier was therefore suspended from a chain over the centre of the river. A house of prayer open to all who believed in God was built nearby, and fishing was prohibited for a certain distance up and down the river; fish that swam in that section of the river had heads that glinted like gold, and ungodly persons who entered the sacred precinct would miraculously drown in the river. To this day the tomb is a popular site of pilgrimage.
Daniel (biblical figure) : Apocalypse of Daniel Arioch, Captain of the guard List of names referring to El Persian Jews
Daniel (biblical figure) : Charles, Robert Henry (1911). "Daniel" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 7 (11th ed.). pp. 804–808. Easton, Matthew George (1897). "Daniel" . Easton's Bible Dictionary (New and revised ed.). T. Nelson and Sons.
Dobrynya Nikitich : Dobrynya Nikitich (Russian: Добрыня Никитич) is one of the most popular bogatyrs (epic knights) from the "Kievan" series of Russian folklore based on bylina (epic songs) originating from the area around the capital of the Kievan Rus, Kiev. Albeit fictional, this character is based on a real warlord Dobrynya, who led the armies of Svyatoslav the Great and tutored his son Vladimir the Great. Many byliny center on Dobrynya completing tasks set him by prince Vladimir. Dobrynya is often portrayed as being close to the royal family, undertaking sensitive and diplomatic missions. As a courtier, Dobrynya seems to be a representative of the noble class of warriors. He is a professional archer, swimmer, and wrestler. He plays the gusli, plays tafl, and is known for his courtesy and cunning.
Dobrynya Nikitich : The following summary is after the version localized in the Povenets District of Olonets Province, collected by A. F. Gilferding in 1871, from the singer P. L. Kalinin: The bylina starts with Dobrynya's mother telling Dobrynya to avoid the Saracen Mountains, not to trample on baby dragons, not to rescue Russian captives, and not to bathe in the Puchai River. Dobrynya disobeyed his mother and did all four things. When he bathed in the Puchai River, he encountered a dragon with twelve trunks (in some variants identified as the Zmey Gorynych). Unarmed and desperate, Dobrynya discovered "a hat of the Greek land" and used it to defeat the dragon. The dragon, apparently a female, pleaded for Dobrynya not to kill her, and the two made a nonaggression pact. The dragon broke the promise immediately and flew off to Kiev, abducting Zabava Putyatishna, the niece of Prince Vladimir. When Dobrynya arrived at Kiev, Prince Vladimir commanded him to rescue his niece, on pain of death. Dobrynya complained to his mother he had neither steed nor spear for the task, and is given the heirloom horse Burko and a magic Shemakhan whip of braided silk. (He carried a spear too, as revealed later). Dobrynya rescued some captives and trampled on the dragon pups, but one of them bit into the horse's leg and immobilized it. Dobrynya remembered the magic whip, whose lashes restored vigor in the horse and he was freed. The dragon emerged angry for the death of her pups and refused to surrender Zabava without a fight. Dobrynya fought the dragon at the Saracen Mountains for three days. On the third day he wanted to give up and leave, but a voice from Heaven told to fight for three more hours. Dobrynya eventually killed the dragon in three hours. The dragon's blood did not seep into the ground, and Dobrynya wallowed in the pool for three days. A voice from Heaven eventually told him to stick his spear in the ground and say an incantation. The blood was then swallowed by the earth, and Zabava was rescued. Since Dobrynya was a peasant, he could not marry Zabava and gave her to Alyosha Popovich. Dobrynya encountered a polyanitsa, Nastasia, and married her instead.
Dobrynya Nikitich : Painting Viktor Vasnetsov's famous painting Bogatyrs (1898) features Dobrynya Nikitich alongside fellow folk heroes, Ilya Muromets and Alyosha Popovich. Music and opera Mentioned in Farewell of Slavianka (1997) In 1901, composer Alexander Grechaninov wrote an opera titled Dobrynya Nikitich. Film and animation «ILYA MUROMETS AND THE NIGHTINGALE THE ROBBER» «ILYA MUROMEC I SOLOVEJ-RAZBOJNIK» (animated film) SOYUZMULTFILM (1978) directed by Ivan Aksenchuk and written by Michael Volpin In 2006, an animated feature film, Dobrynya Nikitich and Zmey Gorynych featured the bogatyr's exploits. The Three Bogatyrs (Три богатыря), animated franchise produced by Melnitsa Animation Studio (2004-) The Stronghold (film) (2017) Literature Dobrynya Nikitich is the uncle of the great prince Vladimir I in Victor Porotnikov's historical dilogie (Dobrynya Nikitich. For Russian Land!, 2012; Bloody Christening "with the Fire and the Sword", 2013). Dobrynya Nikitich was also a member of Vladimir II Monomakh's armed force in the novel Bogatyr's Armed Force of Monomakh. Rus' in the Fire! (2014), written by Vadim Nikolayev. Video Games A female version of Dobrynya Nikitich, later revealed to be his wife, Natasia masquerading as him, was added to the mobile phone game Fate/Grand Order as a Rider-class Servant in 2021. Other In 2015, Russian police gifted the French police a dog named after the folk hero Dobrynya in solidarity after the loss of Diesel, a French police dog in a raid following the 13 November attacks in Paris. The icebreaker ship Dobrynya Nikitich (1916), and a later class of icebreakers were named after the hero.
Dobrynya Nikitich : Citations Bibliography This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Добрыня Никитич" . Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary (in Russian). 1906.
Garshasp : Garshāsp (Persian: گرشاسپ pronounced [gæɹ'ʃɒːsp]) was, in Persian mythology, the last Shah of the Pishdadian dynasty of Persia according to Shahnameh. He was a descendant of Zaav, ruling over the Persian Empire for about nine years. His name is shared with a monster-slaying hero in Iranian mythology. The Avestan form of his name is Kərəsāspa and in Middle Persian his name is Kirsāsp. Garshasp is depicted as a dragonslayer in the Avesta. In Zoroastrian eschatology, Garshasp's resurrection was depicted. His role was to slay the monster Zahhak.
Garshasp : In the Zoroastrian religious text of the Avesta, Kərəsāspa appears as the slayer of ferocious monsters, including the Gandarəβa and the Aži Sruvara. In later Zoroastrian texts Kirsāsp is resurrected at the end of the world to defeat the monster Dahāg. Kərəsāspa is the son of Θrita and belongs to the Sāma family. Θrita is originally the name of a deity; cf. the Vedic Trita.
Garshasp : Encyclopedia Iranica, "GARŠĀSP-NĀMA", FRANÇOIS DE BLOIS Ferdowsi Shahnameh. From the Moscow version. Mohammed Publishing. ISBN 964-5566-35-5
Saint George : Saint George (Greek: Γεώργιος, translit. Geṓrgios; died 23 April 303), also George of Lydda, was an early Christian martyr who is venerated as a saint in Christianity. According to tradition, he was a soldier in the Roman army. Of Cappadocian Greek origin, he became a member of the Praetorian Guard for Roman emperor Diocletian, but was sentenced to death for refusing to recant his Christian faith. He became one of the most venerated saints, heroes, and megalomartyrs in Christianity, and he has been especially venerated as a military saint since the Crusades. He is respected by Christians, Druze, as well as some Muslims as a martyr of monotheistic faith. In hagiography, as one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers and one of the most prominent military saints, he is immortalized in the legend of Saint George and the Dragon. His feast day, Saint George's Day, is traditionally celebrated on 23 April. Historically, the countries of England, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Ukraine, Malta, Ethiopia, the regions of Catalonia and Aragon, and the city of Moscow have claimed George as their patron saint, as have several other regions, cities, universities, professions, and organizations. The Church of Saint George in Lod (Lydda), Israel, has a sarcophagus traditionally believed to contain St. George's remains.
Saint George : Very little is known about George's life. It is thought that he was a Roman military officer of Cappadocian Greek descent, who was martyred under Roman emperor Diocletian in one of the pre-Constantinian persecutions of the 3rd or early 4th century. Beyond this, early sources give conflicting information. Edward Gibbon argued that George, or at least the legend from which the above is distilled, is based on George of Cappadocia, a notorious 4th-century Arian bishop who was Athanasius of Alexandria's most bitter rival, and that it was he who in time became George of England. This identification is seen as highly improbable. Bishop George was slain by Gentile Greeks for exacting onerous taxes, especially inheritance taxes. J. B. Bury, who edited the 1906 edition of Gibbon's The Decline and Fall, wrote "this theory of Gibbon's has nothing to be said for it". He adds that "the connection of St. George with a dragon-slaying legend does not relegate him to the region of the myth". Saint George in all likelihood was martyred before the year 290.
Saint George : George is a highly celebrated saint in both the Western and Eastern Christian churches, and many Patronages of Saint George exist throughout the world. George is the patron saint of England. His cross forms the national flag of England, which overlaps with Scotland's St Andrew's flag Blue White Saltire Cross to establish the United Kingdom of Great Britain Union Flag, which is contained in other national flags containing the Union Flag, such as those of Australia and New Zealand. By the 14th century, the saint had been declared both the patron saint and the protector of the royal family. The country of Georgia, where devotions to the saint date back to the fourth century, is not technically named after the saint, but is a well-attested back-formation of the English name. However, many towns and cities around the world are. George is one of the patron saints of Georgia. Exactly 365 Orthodox churches in Georgia are named after George according to the number of days in a year. According to legend, George was cut into 365 pieces after he fell in battle and every single piece was spread throughout the entire country. George is the patron saint of Ethiopia. He is also the patron saint of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church; George slaying the dragon is one of the most frequently used subjects of icons in the church. George is also one of the patron saints of the Mediterranean islands of Malta and Gozo. In a battle between the Maltese and the Moors, George was alleged to have been seen with Saint Paul and Saint Agata, protecting the Maltese. George is the protector of the island of Gozo and the patron of Gozo's largest city, Victoria. The St. George's Basilica in Victoria is dedicated to him. Devotions to George in Portugal date back to the 12th century. Nuno Álvares Pereira attributed the victory of the Portuguese in the battle of Aljubarrota in 1385 to George. During the reign of John I of Portugal (1357–1433), George became the patron saint of Portugal and the King ordered that the saint's image on the horse be carried in the Corpus Christi procession. The flag of George (white with red cross) was also carried by the Portuguese troops and hoisted in the fortresses, during the 15th century. "Portugal and Saint George" became the battle cry of the Portuguese troops, being still today the battle cry of the Portuguese Army, with simply "Saint George" being the battle cry of the Portuguese Navy. Devotions to Saint George in Brazil was influenced by the Portuguese colonisation. George is the unofficial patron saint of the city of Rio de Janeiro (title officially attributed to Saint Sebastian) and of the city of São Jorge dos Ilhéus (Saint George of Ilhéus). Additionally, George is the patron saint of Scouts and of the Cavalry of the Brazilian Army. In May 2019, he was made official as the patron saint of the State of Rio de Janeiro, next to Saint Sebastian. George is also revered in several Afro-Brazilian religions, such as Umbanda, where it is syncretized in the form of the orisha Ogun. However, the connection of George with the Moon is purely Brazilian, with a strong influence of African culture, and in no way related to the European saint. Tradition says that the spots at the Moon's surface represent the miraculous saint, his horse and his sword slaying the dragon and ready to defend those who seek his help. George, is also the patron saint of the region of Aragon, in Spain, where his feast day is celebrated on 23 April and is known as "Aragon Day", or 'Día de Aragón' in Spanish. He became the patron saint of the former Kingdom of Aragon and Crown of Aragon when King Pedro I of Aragon won the Battle of Alcoraz in 1096. Legend has it that victory eventually fell to the Christian armies when George appeared to them on the battlefield, helping them secure the conquest of the city of Huesca which had been under the Muslim control of the Taifa of Zaragoza. The battle, which had begun two years earlier in 1094, was long and arduous, and had also taken the life of King Pedro's own father, King Sancho Ramirez. With the Aragonese spirits flagging, it is said that George descending from heaven on his charger and bearing a dark red cross, appeared at the head of the Christian cavalry leading the knights into battle. Interpreting this as a sign of protection from God, the Christian militia returned emboldened to the battle field, more energised than ever, convinced theirs was the banner of the one true faith. Defeated, the moors rapidly abandoned the battlefield. After two years of being locked down under siege, Huesca fell and King Pedro made his triumphal entry into the city. To celebrate this victory, the cross of St. George was adopted as the personal coat of arms of Huesca and Aragon, in honour of their saviour. After the fall of Huesca, King Pedro aided the military leader and nobleman, Rodrigo Díaz de Vivar, otherwise known as El Cid, with a coalition army from Aragon in the long conquest of the Kingdom of Valencia. Tales of King Pedro's success at Huesca and in leading his expedition of armies with El Cid against the Moors, under the auspices of George on his standard, spread quickly throughout the realm and beyond the Crown of Aragon, and Christian armies throughout Europe quickly began adopting George as their protector and patron, during all subsequent Crusades to the Holy Lands. By 1117, the military order of Templars adopted the Cross of St. George as a simple, unifying sign for international Christian militia embroidered on the left hand side of their tunics, placed above the heart. The Cross of St. George, also known in Aragon as The Cross of Alcoraz, continues to emblazon the flags of all of Aragon's provinces. The association of St. George with chivalry and noblemen in Aragon continued through the ages. Indeed, even the author Miguel de Cervantes, in his book on the adventures of Don Quixote, also mentions the jousting events that took place at the festival of St. George in Zaragoza in Aragon where one could gain international renown in winning a joust against any of the knights of Aragon. In Valencia, Catalonia, the Balearics, Malta, Sicily and Sardinia, the origins of the veneration of St. George go back to their shared history as territories under the Crown of Aragon, thereby sharing the same legend. One of the highest civil distinctions awarded in Catalonia is the St. George's Cross (Creu de Sant Jordi). The Sant Jordi Awards have been awarded in Barcelona since 1957. Saint George (Sant Jordi in Catalan) is also the patron saint of Catalonia. His cross appears in many buildings and local flags, including the flag of Barcelona, the Catalan capital. A Catalan variation to the traditional legend places George's life story as having occurred in the town of Montblanc, near Tarragona. In 1469, the Order of St. George (Habsburg-Lorraine) was founded in Rome by Emperor Friedrich III of Habsburg in the presence of Pope Paul II in honour of Saint George. The order was continued and promoted by his son, Emperor Maximilian of Habsburg. The later history of the order was eventful, in particular the order was dissolved by Nazi Germany. Only after the fall of the Iron Curtain and the collapse of communism in Central and Eastern Europe was the order reactivated as a European association in association with Saint George by the Habsburg family.
Saint George : It became fashionable in the 15th century, with the full development of classical heraldry, to provide attributed arms to saints and other historical characters from the pre-heraldic ages. The widespread attribution to George of the red cross on a white field in Western art – "Saint George's Cross" – probably first arose in Genoa, which had adopted this image for their flag and George as their patron saint in the 12th century. A vexillum beati Georgii is mentioned in the Genovese annals for the year 1198, referring to a red flag with a depiction of George and the dragon. An illumination of this flag is shown in the annals for the year 1227. The Genovese flag with the red cross was used alongside this "George's flag", from at least 1218, and was known as the insignia cruxata comunis Janue ("cross ensign of the commune of Genoa"). The flag showing the saint himself was the city's principal war flag, but the flag showing the plain cross was used alongside it in the 1240s. In 1348, Edward III of England chose George as the patron saint of his Order of the Garter, and also took to using a red-on-white cross in the hoist of his Royal Standard. The term "Saint George's cross" was at first associated with any plain Greek cross touching the edges of the field (not necessarily red on white). Thomas Fuller in 1647 spoke of "the plain or St George's cross" as "the mother of all the others" (that is, the other heraldic crosses).
Saint George : George is most commonly depicted in early icons, mosaics, and frescos wearing armour contemporary with the depiction, executed in gilding and silver colour, intended to identify him as a Roman soldier. Particularly after the Fall of Constantinople and George's association with the crusades, he is often portrayed mounted upon a white horse. Thus, a 2003 Vatican stamp (issued on the anniversary of the Saint's death) depicts an armoured George atop a white horse, killing the dragon. Eastern Orthodox iconography also permits George to ride a black horse, as in a Russian icon in the British museum collection. In the south Lebanese village of Mieh Mieh, the Saint George Church for Melkite Catholics commissioned for its 75th jubilee in 2012 (under the guidance of Mgr Sassine Gregoire) the only icons in the world portraying the whole life of George, as well as the scenes of his torture and martyrdom (drawn in eastern iconographic style). George may also be portrayed with Saint Demetrius, another early soldier saint. When the two saintly warriors are together and mounted upon horses, they may resemble earthly manifestations of the archangels Michael and Gabriel. Eastern traditions distinguish the two as George rides a white horse and Demetrius a red horse (the red pigment may appear black if it has bituminized). George can also be identified by his spearing a dragon, whereas Demetrius may be spearing a human figure, representing Maximian.
Saint George : Moors and Christians of Alcoy, an international historical festival dedicated to George in Alcoy (Alicante), Spain Uastyrdzhi, Ossetian name for George Church of Saint George (Lod) Sacred Relic of Saint George
Saint George : Lampinen, Antti; Mataix-Ferrándiz, Emilia (2022). Seafaring and Mobility in the Late Antique Mediterranean. Bloomsbury Publishing. ISBN 9781350201712. Cavallo, Guglielmo (1997). The Byzantines. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226097923.
Saint George : Ælfric of Eynsham (1881). "Of Saint George" . Ælfric's Lives of Saints. London, Pub. for the Early English text society, by N. Trübner & co. Brook, E.W., 1925. Acts of Saint George in series Analecta Gorgiana 8 (Gorgias Press). Burgoyne, Michael H. 1976. A Chronological Index to the Muslim Monuments of Jerusalem. In The Architecture of Islamic Jerusalem. Jerusalem: The British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. Gabidzashvili, Enriko. 1991. Saint George: In Ancient Georgian Literature. Armazi – 89: Tbilisi, Georgia. Good, Jonathan, 2009. The Cult of Saint George in Medieval England (Woodbridge, Suffolk: The Boydell Press). Loomis, C. Grant, 1948. White Magic, An Introduction to the Folklore of Christian Legend (Cambridge: Medieval Society of America) Natsheh, Yusuf. 2000. "Architectural survey", in Ottoman Jerusalem: The Living City 1517–1917. Edited by Sylvia Auld and Robert Hillenbrand (London: Altajir World of Islam Trust) pp. 893–899. Whatley, E. Gordon, editor, with Anne B. Thompson and Robert K. Upchurch, 2004. St. George and the Dragon in the South English Legendary (East Midland Revision, c. 1400) Originally published in Saints' Lives in Middle English Collections (Kalamazoo, Michigan: Medieval Institute Publications) (on-line introduction) George Menachery, Saint Thomas Christian Encyclopaedia of India. Vol.II Trichur – 73.
Saint George : English translation of the 5th century Latin legend at the Internet Archive St. George and the Dragon, free illustrated book based on 'The Seven Champions' by Richard Johnson (1596) Archnet Saint George and the Dragon links and pictures (more than 125), from Dragons in Art and on the Web Story of Saint George from The Golden Legends Saint George and the Boy Scouts, including a woodcut of a Scout on horseback slaying a dragon A prayer for St George's Day St. George St. George and the Dragon: An Introduction Greatmartyr, Victory-bearer and Wonderworker George Orthodox icon and synaxarion for 23 April Dedication of the Church of the Greatmartyr George in Lydia Icon and synaxarion for 3 November Dedication of the Church of the Greatmartyr George at Kiev Icon and synaxarion for 26 November Saint George in the church in Plášťovce, (Palást) in Slovakia Famous Georgian Pilgrim Center in India St. George Orthodox Church Puthuppally, Kerala, India Hail George Archived 16 February 2013 at the Wayback Machine Radio webcast explains how Saint George came to be confused with some Afro-Brazilian deities Blog Article on the Feast of Saint George The feast of Saint George is 23 April – About that Dragon ... St. George, Martyr at the Christian Iconography web site. Of St. George, Martyr from Caxton's translation of the Golden Legend
Heracles : Heracles ( HERR-ə-kleez; Greek: Ἡρακλῆς, lit. "glory/fame of Hera"), born Alcaeus (Ἀλκαῖος, Alkaios) or Alcides (Ἀλκείδης, Alkeidēs), was a divine hero in Greek mythology, the son of Zeus and Alcmene, and the foster son of Amphitryon. He was a descendant and half-brother (as they are both sired by the god Zeus) of Perseus. He was the greatest of the Greek heroes, the ancestor of royal clans who claimed to be Heracleidae (Ἡρακλεῖδαι), and a champion of the Olympian order against chthonic monsters. In Rome and the modern West, he is known as Hercules, with whom the later Roman emperors, in particular Commodus and Maximian, often identified themselves. Details of his cult were adapted to Rome as well.
Heracles : Many popular stories were told of his life, the most famous being The Twelve Labours of Heracles; Alexandrian poets of the Hellenistic age drew his mythology into a high poetic and tragic atmosphere. His figure, which initially drew on Near Eastern motifs such as the lion-fight, was widely known. Heracles was the greatest of Hellenic chthonic heroes, but unlike other Greek heroes, no tomb was identified as his. Heracles was both hero and god, as Pindar says heros theos; at the same festival sacrifice was made to him, first as a hero, with a chthonic libation, and then as a god, upon an altar: thus he embodies the closest Greek approach to a "demi-god". The core of the story of Heracles has been identified by Walter Burkert as originating in Neolithic hunter culture and traditions of shamanistic crossings into the netherworld. It is possible that the myths surrounding Heracles were based on the life of a real person or several people whose accomplishments became exaggerated with time.
Heracles : The ancient Greeks celebrated the festival of the Heracleia, which commemorated the death of Heracles, on the second day of the month of Metageitnion (which would fall in late July or early August). What is believed to be an Egyptian Temple of Heracles in the Bahariya Oasis dates to 21 BCE. A reassessment of Ptolemy's descriptions of the island of Malta attempted to link the site at Ras ir-Raħeb with a temple to Heracles, but the arguments are not conclusive. Several ancient cities were named Heraclea in his honor. A very small island close to the island of Lemnos was called Neai (Νέαι), from νέω, which means "I dive/swim", because Heracles swam there. According to the Greek legends, the Herculaneum in Italy was founded by him. Several poleis provided two separate sanctuaries for Heracles, one recognizing him as a god, the other only as a hero. Sacrifice was made to him as a hero and as a god within the same festival. This ambiguity helped create the Heracles cult especially when historians (e.g. Herodotus) and artists encouraged worship such as the painters during the time of the Peisistratos, who often presented Heracles entering Olympus in their works. Some sources explained that the cult of Heracles persisted because of the hero's ascent to heaven and his suffering, which became the basis for festivals, ritual, rites, and the organization of mysteries. There is the observation, for example, that sufferings (pathea) gave rise to the rituals of grief and mourning, which came before the joy in the mysteries in the sequence of cult rituals. Also, like the case of Apollo, the cult of Heracles had been sustained through the years by absorbing local cult figures such as those who share the same nature. He was also constantly invoked as a patron for men, especially the young ones. For example, he was considered the ideal in warfare so he presided over gymnasiums and the ephebes or those men undergoing military training. There were ancient towns and cities that also adopted Heracles as a patron deity, contributing to the spread of his cult. There was the case of the royal house of Macedonia, which claimed lineal descent from the hero, primarily for purposes of divine protection and legitimator of actions. The earliest evidence that shows the worship of Heracles in popular cult was in 6th century BCE (121–122 and 160–165) via an ancient inscription from Phaleron. After the 4th century BCE, Heracles became identified with the Phoenician God Melqart Oitaeans worshiped Heracles and called him Cornopion (Κορνοπίων) because he helped them get rid of locusts (which they called cornopes), while the citizens of Erythrae at Mima called him Ipoctonus (ἰποκτόνος) because he destroyed the vine-eating ips (ἀμπελοφάγων ἰπῶν), a kind of cynips wasp, there.
Heracles : Extraordinary strength, courage, ingenuity, and sexual prowess with both males and females were among the characteristics commonly attributed to him. Heracles used his wits on several occasions when his strength did not suffice, such as when laboring for the king Augeas of Elis, wrestling the giant Antaeus, or tricking Atlas into taking the sky back onto his shoulders. Together with Hermes he was the patron and protector of gymnasia and palaestrae. His iconographic attributes are the lion skin and the club. These qualities did not prevent him from being regarded as a playful figure who used games to relax from his labors and played a great deal with children. By conquering dangerous archaic forces he is said to have "made the world safe for mankind" and to be its benefactor. Heracles was an extremely passionate and emotional individual, capable of doing both great deeds for his friends (such as wrestling with Thanatos on behalf of Prince Admetus, who had regaled Heracles with his hospitality, or restoring his friend Tyndareus to the throne of Sparta after he was overthrown) and being a terrible enemy who would wreak horrible vengeance on those who crossed him, as Augeas, Neleus, and Laomedon all found out to their cost. There was also a coldness to his character, which was demonstrated by Sophocles' depiction of the hero in The Trachiniae. Heracles threatened his marriage with his desire to bring two women under the same roof; one of them was his wife Deianeira. In the works of Euripides involving Heracles, his actions were partly driven by forces outside rational human control. By highlighting the divine causation of his madness, Euripides problematized Heracles' character and status within the civilized context. This aspect is also highlighted in Hercules Furens where Seneca linked the hero's madness to an illusion and a consequence of Heracles' refusal to live a simple life, as offered by Amphitryon. It was indicated that he preferred the extravagant violence of the heroic life and that its ghosts eventually manifested in his madness and that the hallucinatory visions defined Heracles' character.
Heracles : All of Heracles' marriages and almost all of his heterosexual affairs resulted in births of a number of sons and at least four daughters. One of the most prominent is Hyllus, the son of Heracles and Deianeira or Melite. The term Heracleidae, although it could refer to all of Heracles' children and further descendants, is most commonly used to indicate the descendants of Hyllus, in the context of their lasting struggle for return to Peloponnesus, out of where Hyllus and his brothers—the children of Heracles by Deianeira—were thought to have been expelled by Eurystheus. The children of Heracles by Megara are collectively well known because of their ill fate, but there is some disagreement among sources as to their number and individual names. Apollodorus lists three, Therimachus, Creontiades and Deicoon; to these Hyginus adds Ophitus and, probably by mistake, Archelaus, who is otherwise known to have belonged to the Heracleidae, but to have lived several generations later. A scholiast on Pindar' s odes provides a list of seven completely different names: Anicetus, Chersibius, Mecistophonus, Menebrontes, Patrocles, Polydorus, Toxocleitus. Other well-known children of Heracles include Telephus, king of Mysia (by Auge), and Tlepolemus, one of the Greek commanders in the Trojan War (by Astyoche). According to Herodotus, a line of 22 Kings of Lydia descended from Heracles and Omphale. The line was called Tylonids after his Lydian name. The divine sons of Heracles and Hebe are Alexiares and Anicetus.
Heracles : In various languages, variants of Heracles' name are used as a male given name, such as Iraklis (Greek: Ηρακλής) in Modern Greek and Irakli (Georgian: ირაკლი, romanized: irak'li) in Georgian. There are many teams around the world that have this name or have Heracles as their symbol. The most popular in Greece is G.S. Iraklis Thessaloniki. Heracleum is a genus of flowering plants in the carrot family Apiaceae. Some of the species in this genus are quite large. In particular, the giant hogweed (Heracleum mantegazzianum) is exceptionally large, growing up to 5 m tall.
Heracles : Other figures in Greek mythology punished by the gods include Atlas Ixion Medusa Prometheus Sisyphus Tantalus The Danaides Figures resembling Heracles in other mythological traditions Agilaz Beowulf Cú Chulainn Gilgamesh Lugalbanda Melqart Samson Thor
Heracles : Heracles at Theoi.com Classical literature and art Timeless Myths – Heracles The life and adventure of Heracles, including his twelve labours. Heracles, Greek Mythology Link Heracles (in French) Vollmer: Herkules (1836, in German) Burkert, Walter, (1977) 1985. Greek Religion (Harvard University Press). Kerenyi, Karl (1959). The Heroes of the Greeks. New York/London: Thames and Hudson.
Heracles : Bär, Silvio (2018). Herakles im griechischen Epos : Studien zur Narrativität und Poetizität eines Helden. Stuttgart: Franz Steiner Verlag. ISBN 978-3-515-12206-1. Brockliss, William. 2017. "The Hesiodic Shield of Heracles: The Text as Nightmarish Vision." Illinois Classical Studies 42.1: 1–19. doi:10.5406/illiclasstud.42.1.0001. JSTOR 10.5406/illiclasstud.42.1.0001. Burkert, Walter. 1982. "Heracles and the Master of Animals." In Structure and History in Greek Mythology and Ritual, 78–98. Sather Classical Lectures 47. Berkeley: Univ. of California Press. Frade, Sofia (2015). Heracles and Athenian propaganda: politics, imagery and drama. London: Bloomsbury Publishing Ltd. ISBN 9781472505590. Haubold, Johannes. 2005. "Heracles in the Hesiodic Catalogue of Women." In The Hesiodic Catalogue of Women: Constructions and Reconstructions. Edited by Richard Hunter, 85–98. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univ. Press. Karanika, Andromache. 2011. "The End of the Nekyia: Odysseus, Heracles, and the Gorgon in the Underworld." Arethusa 44.1: 1–27. Padilla, Mark W. 1998. "Herakles and Animals in the Origins of Comedy and Satyr Drama". In Le Bestiaire d'Héraclès: IIIe Rencontre héracléenne, edited by Corinne Bonnet, Colette Jourdain-Annequin, and Vinciane Pirenne-Delforge, 217–30. Kernos Suppl. 7. Liège: Centre International d'Etude de la Religion Grecque Antique. Padilla, Mark W. 1998. "The Myths of Herakles in Ancient Greece: Survey and Profile". Lanham, Maryland: University Press of America. Papadimitropoulos, Loukas. 2008. "Heracles as Tragic Hero." Classical World 101.2: 131–38. doi:10.1353/clw.2008.0015 Papadopoulou, Thalia. 2005. Heracles and Euripidean Tragedy. Cambridge Classical Studies. New York: Cambridge Univ. Press. Segal, Charles Paul. 1961. "The Character and Cults of Dionysus and the Unity of the Frogs." Harvard Studies in Classical Philology 65:207–42. doi:10.2307/310837. JSTOR 310837. Stafford, Emma. 2012. Herakles. Gods and Heroes of the Ancient World. New York: Routledge. Strid, Ove. 2013. "The Homeric Prefiguration of Sophocles' Heracles." Hermes 141.4: 381–400. JSTOR 43652880. Woodford, Susan. 1971. "Cults of Herakles in Attica." In Studies Presented to George M. A. Hanfmann. Edited by David Gordon Mitten, John Griffiths Pedley, and Jane Ayer Scott, 211–25. Monographs in Art and Archaeology 2. Mainz, Germany: Verlag Philipp von Zabern. Euripides. The Children of Herakles. New York: Oxford University Press, 1981. Euripides. Heracles. England: Shirley A. Barlow, 1996. Greek Version: Oxford University Press, 1981.
Heracles : Warburg Institute Iconographic Database (ca 2950 images of Heracles) Media related to Heracles at Wikimedia Commons
Indra : Indra (; Sanskrit: इन्द्र) is the king of the devas and Svarga in Hinduism. He is associated with the sky, lightning, weather, thunder, storms, rains, river flows, and war. Indra is the most referred deity in the Rigveda. He is celebrated for his powers based on his status as a god of order, and as the one who killed the great evil, an asura named Vritra, who obstructed human prosperity and happiness. Indra destroys Vritra and his "deceiving forces", and thereby brings rain and sunshine as the saviour of mankind. Indra's significance diminishes in the post-Vedic Indian literature, but he still plays an important role in various mythological events. He is depicted as a powerful hero. According to the Vishnu Purana, Indra is the title borne by the king of the gods, which changes every Manvantara – a cyclic period of time in Hindu cosmology. Each Manvantara has its own Indra and the Indra of the current Manvantara is called Purandhara. Indra is also depicted in Buddhist (Pali: Indā) and Jain mythologies. Indra rules over the much-sought Devas realm of rebirth within the Samsara doctrine of Buddhist traditions. However, like the post-Vedic Hindu texts, Indra is also a subject of ridicule and reduced to a figurehead status in Buddhist texts, shown as a god that suffers rebirth. In Jain traditions, unlike Buddhism and Hinduism, Indra is not the king of gods, but the king of superhumans residing in Svarga-Loka, and very much a part of Jain rebirth cosmology. He is also the one who appears with his consort Indrani to celebrate the auspicious moments in the life of a Jain Tirthankara, an iconography that suggests the king and queen of superhumans residing in Svarga reverentially marking the spiritual journey of a Jain. He is a rough equivalent to Zeus in Greek mythology, or Jupiter in Roman mythology. Indra's powers are similar to other Indo-European deities such as Norse Odin, Perun, Perkūnas, Zalmoxis, Taranis, and Thor, part of the greater Proto-Indo-European mythology. Indra's iconography shows him wielding his Vajra and riding his vahana, Airavata. Indra's abode is in the capital city of Svarga, Amaravati, though he is also associated with Mount Meru (also called Sumeru).
Indra : The etymological roots of Indra are unclear, and it has been a contested topic among scholars since the 19th-century, one with many proposals. The significant proposals have been: root ind-u, or "rain drop", based on the Vedic mythology that he conquered rain and brought it down to earth. root ind, or "equipped with great power". This was proposed by Vopadeva. root idh or "kindle", and ina or "strong". root indha, or "igniter", for his ability to bring light and power (indriya) that ignites the vital forces of life (prana). This is based on Shatapatha Brahmana. root idam-dra, or "It seeing" which is a reference to the one who first perceived the self-sufficient metaphysical Brahman. This is based on Aitareya Upanishad. roots in ancient Indo-European, Indo-Aryan deities. For example, states John Colarusso, as a reflex of proto-Indo-European *h₂nḗr-, Greek anēr, Sabine nerō, Avestan nar-, Umbrian nerus, Old Irish nert, Pashto nər, Ossetic nart, and others which all refer to "most manly" or "hero". Colonial era scholarship proposed that Indra shares etymological roots with Avestan Andra, Old High German *antra ("giant"), or Old Church Slavonic jedru ("strong"), but Max Muller critiqued these proposals as untenable. Later scholarship has linked Vedic Indra to Aynar (the Great One) of Circassian, Abaza and Ubykh mythology, and Innara of Hittite mythology. Colarusso suggests a Pontic origin and that both the phonology and the context of Indra in Indian religions is best explained from Indo-Aryan roots and a Circassian etymology (i.e. *inra). Modern scholarship suggests the name originated at the Bactria–Margiana Archaeological Complex where the Aryans lived before settling in India.
Indra : Indra is of ancient but unclear origin. Aspects of Indra as a deity are cognate to other Indo-European gods; there are thunder gods such as Thor, Perun, and Zeus who share parts of his heroic mythologies, act as king of gods, and all are linked to "rain and thunder". The similarities between Indra of Vedic mythology and of Thor of Nordic and Germanic mythologies are significant, states Max Müller. Both Indra and Thor are storm gods, with powers over lightning and thunder, both carry a hammer or an equivalent, for both the weapon returns to their hand after they hurl it, both are associated with bulls in the earliest layer of respective texts, both use thunder as a battle-cry, both are protectors of mankind, both are described with legends about "milking the cloud-cows", both are benevolent giants, gods of strength, of life, of marriage and the healing gods. Michael Janda suggests that Indra has origins in the Indo-European *trigw-welumos [or rather *trigw-t-welumos] "smasher of the enclosure" (of Vritra, Vala) and diye-snūtyos "impeller of streams" (the liberated rivers, corresponding to Vedic apam ajas "agitator of the waters"). Brave and heroic Innara or Inra, which sounds like Indra, is mentioned among the gods of the Mitanni, a Hurrian-speaking people of Hittite region. Indra as a deity had a presence in northeastern Asia minor, as evidenced by the inscriptions on the Boghaz-köi clay tablets dated to about 1400 BCE. This tablet mentions a treaty, but its significance is in four names it includes reverentially as Mi-it-ra, U-ru-w-na, In-da-ra and Na-sa-at-ti-ia. These are respectively, Mitra, Varuna, Indra and Nasatya-Asvin of the Vedic pantheon as revered deities, and these are also found in Avestan pantheon but with Indra and Naonhaitya as demons. This at least suggests that Indra and his fellow deities were in vogue in South Asia and Asia minor by about mid 2nd-millennium BCE. Indra is praised as the highest god in 250 hymns of the Rigveda – a Hindu scripture dated to have been composed sometime between 1700 and 1100 BCE. He is co-praised as the supreme in another 50 hymns, thus making him one of the most celebrated Vedic deities. He is also mentioned in ancient Indo-Iranian literature, but with a major inconsistency when contrasted with the Vedas. In the Vedic literature, Indra is a heroic god. In the Avestan (ancient, pre-Islamic Iranian) texts such as Vd. 10.9, Dk. 9.3 and Gbd 27.6-34.27, Indra – or accurately Andra – is a gigantic demon who opposes truth. In the Vedic texts, Indra kills the archenemy and demon Vritra who threatens mankind. In the Avestan texts, Vritra is not found. According to David Anthony, the Old Indic religion probably emerged among Indo-European immigrants in the contact zone between the Zeravshan River (present-day Uzbekistan) and (present-day) Iran. It was "a syncretic mixture of old Central Asian and new Indo-European elements", which borrowed "distinctive religious beliefs and practices" from the Bactria–Margiana Culture. At least 383 non-Indo-European words were found in this culture, including the god Indra and the ritual drink Soma. According to Anthony, Many of the qualities of Indo-Iranian god of might/victory, Verethraghna, were transferred to the god Indra, who became the central deity of the developing Old Indic culture. Indra was the subject of 250 hymns, a quarter of the Rig Veda. He was associated more than any other deity with Soma, a stimulant drug (perhaps derived from Ephedra) probably borrowed from the BMAC religion. His rise to prominence was a peculiar trait of the Old Indic speakers. However, according to Paul Thieme, "there is no valid justification for supposing that the Proto-Aryan adjective *vrtraghan was specifically connected with *Indra or any other particular god."
Indra : In Rigveda, Indra is described as strong willed, armed with a thunderbolt, riding a chariot: 5. Let bullish heaven strengthen you, the bull; as bull you travel with your two bullish fallow bays. As bull with a bullish chariot, well-lipped one, as bull with bullish will, you of the mace, set us up in loot. Indra's weapon, which he used to kill the evil Vritra, is the Vajra or thunderbolt. Other alternate iconographic symbolism for him includes a bow (sometimes as a colorful rainbow), a sword, a net, a noose, a hook, or a conch. The thunderbolt of Indra is called Bhaudhara. In the post-Vedic period, he rides a large, four-tusked white elephant called Airavata. In sculpture and relief artworks in temples, he typically sits on an elephant or is near one. When he is shown to have two, he holds the Vajra and a bow. In the Shatapatha Brahmana and in Shaktism traditions, Indra is stated to be the same as the goddess Shodashi (Tripura Sundari), and her iconography is described similarly to that of Indra. The rainbow is called Indra's Bow (Sanskrit: इन्द्रधनुस्, indradhanus).
Indra : Indra is an important deity worshipped by the Kalash people, indicating his prominence in ancient Hinduism.
Indra : Lee, Phil. "Indra and Skanda deities in Korean Buddhism". Chicago Divinity School. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago. "Indra, Lord of Storms and King of the Gods' Realm". Philadelphia, PA: Philadelphia Museum of Art. "Indra wood idol – 13th century, Kamakura period". Nara, Japan.
Lancelot : Lancelot du Lac (French for Lancelot of the Lake), alternatively written as Launcelot and other variants, is a popular character in Arthurian legend's chivalric romance tradition. He is typically depicted as King Arthur's close companion and one of the greatest Knights of the Round Table, as well as a secret lover of Arthur's wife, Guinevere. In his most prominent and complete depiction, Lancelot is a beautiful orphaned son of King Ban of the lost kingdom of Benoïc. He is raised in a fairy realm by the Lady of the Lake while unaware of his real parentage prior to joining Arthur's court as young knight and discovering his origins. A hero of many battles, quests and tournaments, and famed as a nearly unrivalled swordsman and jouster, Lancelot soon becomes the lord of the castle Joyous Gard and personal champion of Queen Guinevere, to whom he is devoted absolutely. He also develops a close relationship with Galehaut and suffers from frequent and sometimes prolonged fits of madness. After Lady Elaine seduces him using magic, their son Galahad, devoid of his father's flaws of character, becomes the perfect knight that succeeds in completing the greatest of all quests, achieving the Holy Grail when Lancelot himself fails due to his sins. Eventually, when Lancelot's adulterous affair with Guinevere is publicly discovered, it develops into a bloody civil war that, once exploited by Mordred, brings an end to Arthur's kingdom. Lancelot's first datable appearance as main character is found in Chrétien de Troyes' 12th-century French poem Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart, which already centered around his courtly love for Guinevere. However, another early Lancelot poem, Lanzelet, a German translation of an unknown French book, did not feature such a motif and the connections between the both texts and their possible common source are uncertain. Later, his character and story was expanded upon Chrétien's tale in the other works of Arthurian romance, especially through the vast Lancelot-Grail prose cycle that presented the now-familiar version of his legend following its abridged retelling in Le Morte d'Arthur. Both loyal and treasonous, Lancelot has remained a popular character for centuries and is often being variably reimagined by modern authors.
Lancelot : Lancelot appeared as a character in many Arthurian films and television productions, sometimes even as the protagonistic titular character. He has been played by Robert Taylor in Knights of the Round Table (1953), William Russell in The Adventures of Sir Lancelot (1956–1957), Robert Goulet in Camelot (1960), Cornel Wilde in Sword of Lancelot (1963), Franco Nero in Camelot (1967), Luc Simon in Lancelot du Lac (1974), Nicholas Clay in Excalibur (1981), Richard Gere in First Knight (1995), Jeremy Sheffield in Merlin (1998), Phil Cornwell in King Arthur's Disasters (2005–2006), Santiago Cabrera in Merlin (2008–2011), Christopher Tavarez in Avalon High (2010), Sinqua Walls in Once Upon a Time (2012–2015), Dan Stevens in Night at the Museum: Secret of the Tomb (2014), and Martin McCreadie in Transformers: The Last Knight (2017), among others. T. H. White's novel The Once and Future King (1958) portrays Lancelot very differently from his usual image in the legend. Here, Lancelot is immensely ugly and introverted, having difficulty dealing with people. Lancelot is played by John Cleese in the Arthurian comedy film Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975). He is portrayed as an awkward knight prone to sudden and uncontrolled outbursts of violence in the section "Sir Lancelot the Brave" that shows his misguided bloody rampage to save a princess who turns out to be a prince and who did not really need to be rescued. He is also a principal character in Spamalot (2005), a stage musical adaptation of the film. Lancelot was played by Hank Azaria in the original Broadway production. In this version, Lancelot is gay and marries Prince Herbert (portrayed by Christian Borle in the original Broadway production). In Roger Zelazny's short story "The Last Defender of Camelot" (1979), the magically immortal Lancelot finally dies helping Morgana save the world from the mad Merlin in the 20th century. He is played by Richard Kiley in a 1986 episode of The Twilight Zone based on the story. In Marion Zimmer Bradley's novel The Mists of Avalon (1982), Lancelet is another name of Galahad, and an estranged son of the Lady of the Lake, Viviane. A handsome and great warrior, he is the protagonist Morgaine's cousin and first love interest, himself being bisexual and loving both Gwenhwyfar and Arthur. He is played by Michael Vartan in the novel's film adaptation (2001). Lancelot is a major character in Bernard Cornwell's The Warlord Chronicles trilogy of novels (1995–1997). This version of Lancelot is presented as a self-serving and cowardly prince of the lost kingdom of Benoic, left by him to be destroyed by Frankish barbarians. To seize the throne of Dumnonia, Lancelot conspires against Arthur with Guinevere, incites a Christian rebellion, and defects to the invading Saxons, ending up being hanged by his own half-brother Galahad and by the narrator Derfel (who had lost his daughter to Lancelot's scheming). Lancelot's glowing depictions in legends are explained as merely an influence of the stories invented by the bards hired by his mother. Lancelot is a recurring character in The Squire's Tales series (1998–2010) by Gerald Morris. In some books he is a major character and in others is a secondary character. This version of Lancelot is initially presented as a talented knight, but somewhat pompous and vain. In later books, filled with regret over his affair with Guinevere, he renounces court and is presented as more humble and wise. He leaves court to become a woodcutter, though he is occasionally swept up in quests to help Arthur and other knights. The video game Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings (1999) features Lancelot as a paladin. The 2003 novel Clothar the Frank by Jack Whyte is told from the perspective of Lancelot. It follows his journeys, starting as a young child until his arrival in Camelot and his meeting with Merlyn and Arthur Pendragon. Lancelot is played by Ioan Gruffudd in the non-fantasy film King Arthur (2004), in which he is one of Arthur's warriors. He is mortally wounded when he saves the young Guinevere and slays the Saxon chieftain Cynric during the Battle of Badon Hill. Thomas Cousseau played Lancelot du Lac in the French comedy TV series Kaamelott (2005–2009), in which he is portrayed as the only competent Knight of the Round Table and a classically chivalrous hero unlike all the others, however still ill-fated. Jason Griffith portrayed him in the video game Sonic and the Black Knight (2009). Lancelot's appearance is based on Shadow the Hedgehog. Lancelot appears in the light novel and its 2011 anime adaptation Fate/Zero as the Servant "Berserker", played by Ryōtarō Okiayu/Kyle Herbert. Lancelot also appears in the mobile game Fate/Grand Order as a Berserker but also as a Saber class Servant. Lancelot is a character in the romance novel Knight Fantasy Night (骑士幻想夜, Qishi Huanxiang Ye) by Vivibear (2013), adapted into a comic book in Samanhua (飒漫画). Sophie Cookson's character Roxanne "Roxy" Morton in the film Kingsman: The Secret Service (2014) and its sequel uses the code name Lancelot. It was also used by Aaron Taylor-Johnson's character Archie Reid in the prequel. Lancelot is the primary antagonist in the first season of The Librarians (2014), portrayed by both Matt Frewer and Jerry O'Connell. He gained immortality sometime after the fall of Camelot through magic and has spent centuries seeking to reverse the events that brought about its destruction. As the mysterious Dulaque (a respelling of his name du Lac), he leads the Serpent Brotherhood, a cult that has long opposed the Library's mission to keep magic out of the hands of humans. In the video game Mobile Legends: Bang Bang (2016), Lancelot is a playable character portrayed as Guinevere's brother. Giles Kristian's novel Lancelot (2018) is an original telling of the Lancelot story. The immortal Lancelot Du Lac, voiced by Gareth David-Lloyd, is a co-protagonist of Du Lac & Fey: Dance of Death (2019), an adventure video game set in Victorian London. In the illustrated novel Cursed (2019) by Frank Miller and Tom Wheeler Lancelot is a violent Christian fanatic known as "The Weeping Monk". In the Netflix adaptation of Cursed (2020), he is played by Daniel Sharman. Lancelot is the major character in the animated series Wizards: Tales of Arcadia (2020), voiced by Rupert Penry-Jones. Lancelot is featured in the video game Smite as a horseback assassin armed with a lance. Lancelot is one of the titular knights in the manga series Four Knights of the Apocalypse. He is the son of Ban and Elaine.
Lancelot : Lancelot at The Camelot Project An English translation of the Prose Lancelot at the Internet Archive Lancelot digital exposition at the Bibliothèque nationale de France (in French)
Menestratus (Thespiae) : In Greek mythology, Menestratus (; Ancient Greek: Μενέστρατος, romanized: Menéstratos) is a Thespian man who dies trying to slay a dragon in an attempt to save his lover from the monster. His story is recounted in Description of Greece, a second-century work by Greek traveller and geographer Pausanias.
Menestratus (Thespiae) : Menestratus lived in Thespiae, where he met and became lovers with a man named Cleostratus. Soon, a great dragon started ravaging their city, and the citizens looked to Zeus for help. The god commanded them to sacrifice a teenage boy each year to the monster, which they did for an undisclosed number of years. When the lot fell to Cleostratus, Menestratus devised a trick in order to save his lover from such fate. He made a bronze breastplate with a fish-hook on each plate, point turned upwards. Clad in the breastplate he willingly offered himself to the dragon, convinced it would kill it. The dragon devoured him, and like Menestratus had predicted, it died indeed, though at the cost of Menestratus' own life. Afterwards, the Thespians erected a bronze cult statue to honour Zeus the Saviour.
Menestratus (Thespiae) : The story bears a lot of similarities to the myth of Alcyoneus and Eurybarus. In both cases a horrifying beast terrorises a place, and a man chooses to confront it in the stead of their love interests, who are the intended sacrificial victims. Unlike Eurybarus however, Menestratus does not survive the ordeal. The lovers being of the same sex is noted to be a rare variant among the many versions of the dragon-slaying fairytale trope.
Menestratus (Thespiae) : Perseus and Andromeda Dragonslayer
Menestratus (Thespiae) : Felton, Debbie (2021). Monsters and Monarchs: Serial Killers in Classical Myth and History. Austin, US: University of Texas. ISBN 978-1-4773-0379-5. Hansen, William F. (2002). Ariadne's Thread: A Guide to International Oral Narratives in Classical Literature. Cornell University Press. ISBN 0-8014-3670-2. March, Jennifer R. (May 31, 2014). Dictionary of Classical Mythology. Oxbow Books. ISBN 978-1-78297-635-6. Pausanias, Pausanias Description of Greece with an English Translation by W.H.S. Jones, Litt.D., and H.A. Ormerod, M.A., in 4 Volumes. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1918. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library.
Menestratus (Thespiae) : THESPIAN DRAGON on the Theoi Project
Odin : Odin (; from Old Norse: Óðinn) is a widely revered god in Germanic paganism. Norse mythology, the source of most surviving information about him, associates him with wisdom, healing, death, royalty, the gallows, knowledge, war, battle, victory, sorcery, poetry, frenzy, and the runic alphabet, and depicts him as the husband of the goddess Frigg. In wider Germanic mythology and paganism, the god was also known in Old English as Wōden, in Old Saxon as Uuôden, in Old Dutch as Wuodan, in Old Frisian as Wêda, and in Old High German as Wuotan, all ultimately stemming from the Proto-Germanic theonym *Wōðanaz, meaning 'lord of frenzy', or 'leader of the possessed'. Odin appears as a prominent god throughout the recorded history of Northern Europe, from the Roman occupation of regions of Germania (from c. 2 BCE) through movement of peoples during the Migration Period (4th to 6th centuries CE) and the Viking Age (8th to 11th centuries CE). In the modern period, the rural folklore of Germanic Europe continued to acknowledge Odin. References to him appear in place names throughout regions historically inhabited by the ancient Germanic peoples, and the day of the week Wednesday bears his name in many Germanic languages, including in English. In Old English texts, Odin holds a particular place as a euhemerized ancestral figure among royalty, and he is frequently referred to as a founding figure among various other Germanic peoples, such as the Langobards, while some Old Norse sources depict him as an enthroned ruler of the gods. Forms of his name appear frequently throughout the Germanic record, although narratives regarding Odin are mainly found in Old Norse works recorded in Iceland, primarily around the 13th century. These texts make up the bulk of modern understanding of Norse mythology. Old Norse texts portray Odin as the son of Bestla and Borr along with two brothers, Vili and Vé, and he fathered many sons, most famously the gods Thor (with Jörð) and Baldr (with Frigg). He is known by hundreds of names. Odin is frequently portrayed as one-eyed and long-bearded, wielding a spear named Gungnir or appearing in disguise wearing a cloak and a broad hat. He is often accompanied by his animal familiars—the wolves Geri and Freki and the ravens Huginn and Muninn, who bring him information from all over Midgard—and he rides the flying, eight-legged steed Sleipnir across the sky and into the underworld. In these texts he frequently seeks greater knowledge, most famously by obtaining the Mead of Poetry, and makes wagers with his wife Frigg over his endeavors. He takes part both in the creation of the world by slaying the primordial being Ymir and in giving life to the first two humans Ask and Embla. He also provides mankind knowledge of runic writing and poetry, showing aspects of a culture hero. He has a particular association with the Yule holiday. Odin is also associated with the divine battlefield maidens, the valkyries, and he oversees Valhalla, where he receives half of those who die in battle, the einherjar, sending the other half to the goddess Freyja's Fólkvangr. Odin consults the disembodied, herb-embalmed head of the wise Mímir, who foretells the doom of Ragnarök and urges Odin to lead the einherjar into battle before being consumed by the monstrous wolf Fenrir. In later folklore, Odin sometimes appears as a leader of the Wild Hunt, a ghostly procession of the dead through the winter sky. He is associated with charms and other forms of magic, particularly in Old English and Old Norse texts. The figure of Odin is a frequent subject of interest in Germanic studies, and scholars have advanced numerous theories regarding his development. Some of these focus on Odin's particular relation to other figures; for example, Freyja's husband Óðr appears to be something of an etymological doublet of the god, while Odin's wife Frigg is in many ways similar to Freyja, and Odin has a particular relation to Loki. Other approaches focus on Odin's place in the historical record, exploring whether Odin derives from Proto-Indo-European mythology or developed later in Germanic society. In the modern period, Odin has inspired numerous works of poetry, music, and other cultural expressions. He is venerated with other Germanic gods in most forms of the new religious movement Heathenry; some branches focus particularly on him.
Odin : References to or depictions of Odin appear on numerous objects. Migration Period (5th and 6th century CE) gold bracteates (types A, B, and C) feature a depiction of a human figure above a horse, holding a spear and flanked by one or two birds. The presence of the birds has led to the iconographic identification of the human figure as the god Odin, flanked by Huginn and Muninn. Like the Prose Edda description of the ravens, a bird is sometimes depicted at the ear of the human, or at the ear of the horse. Bracteates have been found in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and, in smaller numbers, England and areas south of Denmark. Austrian Germanist Rudolf Simek states that these bracteates may depict Odin and his ravens healing a horse and may indicate that the birds were originally not simply his battlefield companions but also "Odin's helpers in his veterinary function." Vendel Period helmet plates (from the 6th or 7th century) found in a grave in Sweden depict a helmeted figure holding a spear and a shield while riding a horse, flanked by two birds. The plate has been interpreted as Odin accompanied by two birds; his ravens. Two of the 8th century picture stones from the island of Gotland, Sweden depict eight-legged horses, which are thought by most scholars to depict Sleipnir: the Tjängvide image stone and the Ardre VIII image stone. Both stones feature a rider sitting atop an eight-legged horse, which some scholars view as Odin. Above the rider on the Tjängvide image stone is a horizontal figure holding a spear, which may be a valkyrie, and a female figure greets the rider with a cup. The scene has been interpreted as a rider arriving at the world of the dead. The mid-7th century Eggja stone bearing the Odinic name haras (Old Norse 'army god') may be interpreted as depicting Sleipnir. A pair of identical Germanic Iron Age bird-shaped brooches from Bejsebakke in northern Denmark may be depictions of Huginn and Muninn. The back of each bird features a mask-motif, and the feet of the birds are shaped like the heads of animals. The feathers of the birds are also composed of animal-heads. Together, the animal-heads on the feathers form a mask on the back of the bird. The birds have powerful beaks and fan-shaped tails, indicating that they are ravens. The brooches were intended to be worn on each shoulder, after Germanic Iron Age fashion. Archaeologist Peter Vang Petersen comments that while the symbolism of the brooches is open to debate, the shape of the beaks and tail feathers confirms the brooch depictions are ravens. Petersen notes that "raven-shaped ornaments worn as a pair, after the fashion of the day, one on each shoulder, makes one's thoughts turn towards Odin's ravens and the cult of Odin in the Germanic Iron Age." Petersen says that Odin is associated with disguise, and that the masks on the ravens may be portraits of Odin. The Oseberg tapestry fragments, discovered within the Viking Age Oseberg ship burial in Norway, features a scene containing two black birds hovering over a horse, possibly originally leading a wagon (as a part of a procession of horse-led wagons on the tapestry). In her examination of the tapestry, scholar Anne Stine Ingstad interprets these birds as Huginn and Muninn flying over a covered cart containing an image of Odin, drawing comparison to the images of Nerthus attested by Tacitus in 1 CE. Excavations in Ribe, Denmark have recovered a Viking Age lead metal-caster's mould and 11 identical casting-moulds. These objects depict a moustached man wearing a helmet that features two head-ornaments. Archaeologist Stig Jensen proposes these head-ornaments should be interpreted as Huginn and Muninn, and the wearer as Odin. He notes that "similar depictions occur everywhere the Vikings went—from eastern England to Russia and naturally also in the rest of Scandinavia." A portion of Thorwald's Cross (a partly surviving runestone erected at Kirk Andreas on the Isle of Man) depicts a bearded human holding a spear downward at a wolf, his right foot in its mouth, and a large bird on his shoulder. Andy Orchard comments that this bird may be either Huginn or Muninn. Rundata dates the cross to 940, while Pluskowski dates it to the 11th century. This depiction has been interpreted as Odin, with a raven or eagle at his shoulder, being consumed by the monstrous wolf Fenrir during the events of Ragnarök. The 11th century Ledberg stone in Sweden, similarly to Thorwald's Cross, features a figure with his foot at the mouth of a four-legged beast, and this may also be a depiction of Odin being devoured by Fenrir at Ragnarök. Below the beast and the man is a depiction of a legless, helmeted man, with his arms in a prostrate position. The Younger Futhark inscription on the stone bears a commonly seen memorial dedication, but is followed by an encoded runic sequence that has been described as "mysterious," and "an interesting magic formula which is known from all over the ancient Norse world." In November 2009, the Roskilde Museum announced the discovery and subsequent display of a niello-inlaid silver figurine found in Lejre, which they dubbed Odin from Lejre. The silver object depicts a person sitting on a throne. The throne features the heads of animals and is flanked by two birds. The Roskilde Museum identifies the figure as Odin sitting on his throne Hliðskjálf, flanked by the ravens Huginn and Muninn. Various interpretations have been offered for a symbol that appears on various archaeological finds known modernly as the valknut. Due to the context of its placement on some objects, some scholars have interpreted this symbol as referring to Odin. For example, Hilda Ellis Davidson theorises a connection between the valknut, the god Odin and "mental binds": For instance, beside the figure of Odin on his horse shown on several memorial stones there is a kind of knot depicted, called the valknut, related to the triskele. This is thought to symbolize the power of the god to bind and unbind, mentioned in the poems and elsewhere. Odin had the power to lay bonds upon the mind, so that men became helpless in battle, and he could also loosen the tensions of fear and strain by his gifts of battle-madness, intoxication, and inspiration. Davidson says that similar symbols are found beside figures of wolves and ravens on "certain cremation urns" from Anglo-Saxon cemeteries in East Anglia. According to Davidson, Odin's connection to cremation is known, and it does not seem unreasonable to connect with Odin in Anglo-Saxon England. Davidson proposes further connections between Odin's role as bringer of ecstasy by way of the etymology of the god's name.
Odin : Beginning with Henry Petersen's doctoral dissertation in 1876, which proposed that Thor was the indigenous god of Scandinavian farmers and Odin a later god proper to chieftains and poets, many scholars of Norse mythology in the past viewed Odin as having been imported from elsewhere. The idea was developed by Bernhard Salin on the basis of motifs in the petroglyphs and bracteates, and with reference to the Prologue of the Prose Edda, which presents the Æsir as having migrated into Scandinavia. Salin proposed that both Odin and the runes were introduced from Southeastern Europe in the Iron Age. Other scholars placed his introduction at different times; Axel Olrik, during the Migration Age as a result of Gaulish influence. More radically, both the archaeologist and comparative mythologist Marija Gimbutas and the Germanicist Karl Helm argued that the Æsir as a group, which includes both Thor and Odin, were late introductions into Northern Europe and that the indigenous religion of the region had been Vanic. In the 16th century and by the entire Vasa dynasty, Odin (Swedish: Oden) was officially considered the first king of Sweden by that country's government and historians. This was influenced by an embellished list of rulers invented by Johannes Magnus. Under the trifunctional hypothesis of Georges Dumézil, Odin is assigned one of the core functions in the Indo-European pantheon as a representative of the first function (sovereignty) corresponding to the Hindu Varuṇa (fury and magic) as opposed to Týr, who corresponds to the Hindu Mitrá (law and justice); while the Vanir represent the third function (fertility). Another approach to Odin has been in terms of his function and attributes. Many early scholars interpreted him as a wind-god or especially as a death-god. He has also been interpreted in the light of his association with ecstatic practices, and Jan de Vries compared him to the Hindu god Rudra and the Greek Hermes.
Odin : The god Odin has been a source of inspiration for artists working in fine art, literature, and music. Fine art depictions of Odin in the modern period include the pen and ink drawing Odin byggande Sigtuna (1812) and the sketch King Gylfe receives Oden on his arrival to Sweden (1816) by Pehr Hörberg; the drinking horn relief Odens möte med Gylfe (1818), the marble statue Odin (1830) and the colossal bust Odin by Bengt Erland Fogelberg, the statues Odin (1812/1822) and Odin (1824/1825) by Hermann Ernst Freund, the sgraffito over the entrance of Villa Wahnfried in Bayreuth (1874) by R. Krausse, the painting Odin (around 1880) by Edward Burne-Jones, the drawing Thor und Magni (1883) by K. Ehrenberg, the marble statue Wodan (around 1887) by H. Natter, the oil painting Odin und Brunhilde (1890) by Konrad Dielitz, the graphic drawing Odin als Kriegsgott (1896) by Hans Thoma, the painting Odin and Fenris (around 1900) by Dorothy Hardy, the oil painting Wotan und Brünhilde (1914) by Koloman Moser, the painting The Road to Walhall by S. Nilsson, the wooden Oslo City Hall relief Odin og Mime (1938) and the coloured wooden relief in the courtyard of the Oslo City Hall Odin på Sleipnir (1945–1950) by Dagfin Werenskiold, and the bronze relief on the doors of the Swedish Museum of National Antiquities, Odin (1950) by Bror Marklund. Works of modern literature featuring Odin include the poem Der Wein (1745) by Friedrich von Hagedorn, Hymne de Wodan (1769) by Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock, Om Odin (1771) by Peter Frederik Suhm, the tragedy Odin eller Asarnes invandring by K. G. Leopold, the epic poem Odin eller Danrigets Stiftelse (1803) by Jens Baggesen, the poem Maskeradenball (1803) and Optrin af Norners og Asers Kamp: Odin komme til Norden (1809) by N. F. S. Grundtvig, poems in Nordens Guder (1819) by Adam Oehlenschläger, the four-part novel Sviavigamal (1833) by Carl Jonas Love Almqvist, "The Hero as Divinity" from On Heroes, Hero-Worship, & the Heroic in History (1841) by Thomas Carlyle, the poem Prelude (1850) by William Wordsworth, the poem Odins Meeresritt by Aloys Schreiber set to music by Karl Loewe (1851), the canzone Germanenzug (1864) by Robert Hamerling, the poem Zum 25. August 1870 (1870) by Richard Wagner, the ballad Rolf Krake (1910) by F. Schanz, the novel Juvikingerne (1918–1923) by Olav Duun, the comedy Der entfesselte Wotan (1923) by Ernst Toller, the novel Wotan by Karl Hans Strobl, Herrn Wodes Ausfahrt (1937) by Hans-Friedrich Blunck, the poem An das Ich (1938) by H. Burte, and the novel Sage vom Reich (1941–1942) by Hans-Friedrich Blunck. Music inspired by or featuring the god includes the ballets Odins Schwert (1818) and Orfa (1852) by J. H. Stunz and the opera cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen (1848–1874) by Richard Wagner. Odin was adapted as a character by Marvel Comics, first appearing in the Journey into Mystery series in 1962. Sir Anthony Hopkins portrayed the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Thor (2011), Thor: The Dark World (2013), and Thor: Ragnarok (2017). Odin is featured in a number of video games. In the 2002 Ensemble Studios game Age of Mythology, Odin is one of three major gods Norse players can worship. Odin is also mentioned through Santa Monica Studio's 2018 game God of War and appears in its 2022 sequel God of War Ragnarök. He is a major influence in the 2020 Ubisoft game Assassin's Creed Valhalla in the form of an Isu (a godlike, humanoid species within the Assassin's Creed universe) of the same name. The primary protagonist, Eivor, who the player controls throughout the game is revealed to be a sage, or human reincarnation, of Odin. Odin is also one of the playable gods in the third-person multiplayer online battle arena game Smite.
Odin : MyNDIR (My Norse Digital Image Repository) Illustrations of Óðinn from manuscripts and early print books.
Perseus : In Greek mythology, Perseus (US: , UK: ; Greek: Περσεύς, translit. Perseús) is the legendary founder of the Perseid dynasty. He was, alongside Cadmus and Bellerophon, the greatest Greek hero and slayer of monsters before the days of Heracles. He beheaded the Gorgon Medusa for Polydectes and saved Andromeda from the sea monster Cetus. He was the son of Zeus and the mortal Danaë, as well as the half-brother and great-grandfather of Heracles (as they were both children of Zeus, and Heracles' mother was descended from Perseus).
Perseus : Because of the obscurity of the name "Perseus" and the legendary character of its bearer, most etymologists presume that it might be pre-Greek; however, the name of Perseus's native city was Greek and so were the names of his wife and relatives. There is some idea that it descended into Greek from the Proto-Indo-European language. In that regard Graves proposed the only Greek derivation available: Perseus might be from the Greek verb πέρθειν (pérthein, "to waste, ravage, sack, destroy") some form of which is familiar in Homeric epithets. According to Buck, the -eus suffix is typically used to form an agent noun, in this case from the aorist stem, pers-. Pers-eus therefore is a "sacker [of cities]"; that is, a soldier by occupation, a fitting name for the first Mycenaean warrior. The further origin of perth- is more obscure. Hofmann lists the possible root as *bher-, from which Latin ferio, "strike". This corresponds to Pokorny's *bher-(3), "scrape, cut". Ordinarily *bh- descends to Greek as ph-. This difficulty can be overcome by presuming a dissimilation from the -th- in pérthein, which the Greeks would have preferred from a putative *phérthein. Graves carries the meaning still further, to the Perse- in Persephone, goddess of death. Ventris & Chadwick speculate about a Mycenaean goddess pe-re-*82 (Linear B: 𐀟𐀩𐁚), attested on tablet PY Tn 316, and tentatively reconstructed as *Preswa. A Greek folk etymology connected Perseus to the name of the Persian people, whom they called the Pérsai (from Old Persian Pārsa "Persia, a Persian"). However, the native name of the Persians – Pārsa in Persian – has always been pronounced with an -a-. Herodotus recounts this story, devising a foreign son of Andromeda and Perseus, Perses, from whom the Persians took the name. Apparently the Persians also knew that story, as Xerxes tried to use it when bribing the Argives during his invasion of Greece, but ultimately failed to do this.
Perseus : Perseus and Andromeda had seven sons: Perses, Alcaeus, Heleus, Mestor, Sthenelus, Electryon, and Cynurus, and two daughters, Gorgophone and Autochthe. Perses was left in Aethiopia and was believed to have been an ancestor of the Persians. The other descendants ruled Mycenae from Electryon to Eurystheus, after whom Atreus got the kingdom. However, the Perseids included the great hero, Heracles, stepson of Amphitryon, son of Alcaeus. The Heraclides, or descendants of Heracles, successfully contested the rule of the Atreids. A statement by the Athenian orator Isocrates helps to date Perseus approximately. He said that Heracles was four generations later than Perseus, which corresponds to the legendary succession: Perseus, Electryon, Alcmena, and Heracles, who was a contemporary of Eurystheus. Atreus was one generation later, a total of five generations.
Perseus : The replacement of Bellerophon as the tamer and rider of Pegasus by the more familiar culture hero Perseus was not simply an error of painters and poets of the Renaissance. The transition was a development of Classical times which became the standard image during the Middle Ages and has been adopted by the European poets of the Renaissance and later: Giovanni Boccaccio's Genealogia deorum gentilium libri (10.27) identifies Pegasus as the steed of Perseus, and Pierre Corneille places Perseus upon Pegasus in Andromède. Various modern representations of Pegasus depict the winged horse with Perseus, including the fantasy film Clash of the Titans and its 2010 remake.
Perseus : Perseus has a constellation named after him. The legend says that because he was so brave fighting Cetus for someone else he was given a place in the stars forever. It is located in the east in the winter at about the Latitude 10-N. It is not far from the stars Betelgeuse and Sirius; his wife's constellation Andromeda is also nearby. It is southward from Cassiopeia, and to the left of Taurus. His constellation contains the most famous variable star Algol and some deep sky objects such as Messier 34, the Double Cluster, the California Nebula, and the Little Dumbbell Nebula (Messier 76). There are eight named stars in the constellation Algol, Atik, Berehinya, Menkib, Miram, Mirfak, Misam, and Muspelheim. It was cataloged in the 2nd century by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy and is known for the famous Perseid Meteor Shower. There is in fact a whole family of constellations based on the myth of Perseus, which includes Andromeda, Cassiopeia, Cepheus, and Cetus. There is also a molecular cloud in the constellation that is 600 light years from our solar system. There is also a cluster of galaxies called the Perseus cluster. There is one galaxy in the cluster named Caldwell 24 which is a powerful source for radio and X-ray waves. It has a visual magnitude of 12.6 and is 237 million light years away from the Milky Way galaxy.
Perseus : Eurybarus and Alcyoneus Menestratus and Cleostratus Lugh Lully Ibert (1921) Chimera Aethiopia The Story of Perseus and the Gorgon's Head, a short novel published in 1898
Perseus : Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S. in 2 Volumes, Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1921. ISBN 0-674-99135-4. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Greek text available from the same website. Apollonius Rhodius, Argonautica translated by Robert Cooper Seaton (1853–1915), R. C. Loeb Classical Library Volume 001. London, William Heinemann Ltd, 1912. Online version at the Topos Text Project. Apollonius Rhodius, Argonautica. George W. Mooney. London. Longmans, Green. 1912. Greek text available at the Perseus Digital Library. Herodotus, The Histories with an English translation by A.D. Godley. Cambridge. Harvard University Press. 1920. ISBN 0-674-99133-8. Online version at the Topos Text Project. Greek text available at Perseus Digital Library. Hesiod, Theogony from The Homeric Hymns and Homerica with an English Translation by Hugh G. Evelyn-White, Cambridge, MA.,Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1914. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Greek text available from the same website. Pausanias, Description of Greece with an English Translation by W.H.S. Jones, Litt.D., and H.A. Ormerod, M.A., in 4 Volumes. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1918. ISBN 0-674-99328-4. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library Pausanias, Graeciae Descriptio. 3 vols. Leipzig, Teubner. 1903. Greek text available at the Perseus Digital Library. Publius Ovidius Naso, Metamorphoses translated by Brookes More (1859–1942). Boston, Cornhill Publishing Co. 1922. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Publius Ovidius Naso, Metamorphoses. Hugo Magnus. Gotha (Germany). Friedr. Andr. Perthes. 1892. Latin text available at the Perseus Digital Library. Suida, Suda Encyclopedia translated by Ross Scaife, David Whitehead, William Hutton, Catharine Roth, Jennifer Benedict, Gregory Hays, Malcolm Heath Sean M. Redmond, Nicholas Fincher, Patrick Rourke, Elizabeth Vandiver, Raphael Finkel, Frederick Williams, Carl Widstrand, Robert Dyer, Joseph L. Rife, Oliver Phillips and many others. Online version at the Topos Text Project. Cartwright, Mark. "Perseus". World History Encyclopedia, World History Encyclopedia, 8 Mar. 2022, https://www.worldhistory.org/Perseus/. NSF, NOIRLab. "Perseus Mythology". Globe at Night, 2019, https://www.globeatnight.org/mythology/perseus Archived 2022-06-17 at the Wayback Machine. Ogden, Daniel. "Perseus". Routledge & CRC Press, 2008, https://www.routledge.com/Perseus/Ogden/p/book/9780415427258. Parada, Carlos, and Maicar Förlag. "Perseus". Perseus 1 – Greek Mythology Link, 1997, http://www.maicar.com/GML/Perseus1.html. "Perseus Mythology". Globe at Night, https://www.globeatnight.org/mythology/perseus Archived 2022-06-17 at the Wayback Machine
Perseus : The Warburg Institute Iconographic Database (images of Perseus)
Rigveda 1.32 : Hymn 1.32 of the Rigveda is a poem praising the deity Indra for his victory over the serpent Vritra. While this story is often referred to in the Rigveda, hymn 1.32 is the only detailed description of it. The poem describes in 15 stanzas how Indra smashes Vritra with his mace, thereby liberating the waters. The hymn is rich in similes and has long been valued for its beauty. The linguistic and metrical traits of the poem suggest it was composed relatively late in the Rigveda period. Preserved in mandala 1 of the Rigveda, the hymn is attributed to Hiraṇyastūpa Āṅgirasa, a rishi of the Angiras clan.
Rigveda 1.32 : Indra's victory over Vritra is a principal feat referred to repeatedly in the Rigveda. However, hymn 1.32 is the only detailed description of it. Even so, the hymn is not a simple linear narrative but circles around and repeatedly returns to the confrontation between Indra and Vritra. The poem consists of 15 stanzas, each of which has 4 lines while each line has 11 syllables. The meter is called triṣṭubh, a common metrical form in the Rigveda. The first stanza begins with the poet stating that he will "proclaim the manly deeds of Indra" who is called the wielder of the vajra (mace). The Indra-Vritra myth is then presented in a nutshell – Indra slew the serpent, bored out the waters and split the bellies or innards of the mountains. The word used for serpent is áhi- which is also sometimes translated as 'dragon'. The phrase áhann áhim "he slew the serpent" is formulaic, occurring 11 times in the Rigveda and always applied to Indra. Stanza 2 returns to Indra's "resounding mace", attributing its creation to Tvashtr. Then the poem's first simile appears, the waters which Indra freed from Vritra are like "bellowing milk-cows". The bovine imagery continues in stanza 3 where Indra is compared to a bull. The smashing of Vritra with the mace is further described in stanzas 3 and 4 while stanza 4 also credits Indra for "producing sun, sky, and dawn". Stanza 5 has a simile comparing the defeated Vritra to "a tree-trunk split asunder with an axe". Stanza 6 has a further simile to describe Vritra's defeat: Like a nonwarrior who can't hold his liquor, he provoked the hard-pressing, lees-quaffing super champion. He did not withstand the onslaught of his weapons. He was crushed for having challenged Indra, his features smashed. A simile in stanza 7 compares Vritra to a steer going against a bull. Stanzas 8–11 describe the liberation of the waters which Vritra was holding back. The female figure Danu is mentioned and described as the mother of Vritra. Stanzas 12–13 return to a description of the battle but here it is portrayed as more of an even fight, with Vritra attacking Indra with his fangs and other means. Indra is, nevertheless, the victor. This is followed by the puzzling stanza 14, which states that Indra fled after the battle, terrified of a would-be avenger. Whom did you see, Indra, as the avenger of the serpent when fear came into your heart after you smashed him, and when you crossed over the ninety-nine flowing rivers, like a frightened falcon through the airy realms? The final stanza 15 extolls Indra as a king over different peoples, like a rim encompassing the spokes of a wheel.
Rigveda 1.32 : The Rigveda hymns in general are dated to approximately 1400–1000 BCE. Edward Vernon Arnold divided the poetry of the Rigveda into five periods, based on metrical and linguistic criteria. He also noted chronological trends in content of the poems, such as mythological narration being characteristic of later poetry. Arnold analyzed 1.32 as a relatively late poem, assigning it to the fourth phase, the "cretic" period. The Anukramaṇī indices attribute hymn 1.32 to Hiraṇyastūpa Āṅgirasa, a rishi who is also ascribed another hymn to Indra (1.33) as well as several hymns to other deities. The traditional identifications of poets are seen as plausible by some scholars as they correspond to verbal and thematic connections between the hymns. The Āṅgiras seers are a celebrated clan of poets whose hymns are found mainly in mandala 8 and mandala 1 of the Rigveda.
Rigveda 1.32 : Hiraṇyastūpa Āṅgirasa's hymns to Indra seem to have long been especially valued. The Aitareya Brahmana says that with hymn 1.32, Hiraṇyastūpa "obtained the favour of Indra" and "gained the highest world". The poem is also valued highly by Western scholars who have praised its enduring beauty and described it as "a fine hymn" and "a poetic masterwork" that is "justly famous". The hymn has had a variety of functions in the śrauta liturgy, including use at the midday pressing of Soma. Laurie L. Patton comments that its verses "are meant to indicate the power of Soma as a world-conquering drink that releases nothing less than the waters of the world". In the Rig Vidhana, the hymn is indicated for use as a kind of magical incantation: He who is restrained should mutter Hiraṇyastūpa's hymn [RV 1.32] which is a high praise of Indra's deeds: he pushes against his enemies with very little effort. The first three stanzas of the hymn are used in hymn 2.5 of the Atharva Veda, an invitation to Indra. The poem is a part of mandala 1 of the Rigveda which was first published by Friedrich August Rosen in 1838 along with a Latin translation. It has appeared in English as a part of complete translations of the Rig-Veda and in publications of selected hymns as well as in mythological studies. It is frequently referred to in studies of Proto-Indo-European mythology such as How to Kill a Dragon by Calvert Watkins.
Rigveda 1.32 : Arnold, E. Vernon (1905). Vedic Metre in its Historical Development. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Aufrecht, Theodor (1877). Die Hymnen des Ṛigveda. Erster Theil. Bonn: Adolph Mareus. Bhat, M. S. (1997). Vedic Tantrism. A Study of Ṛgvidhāna of Śaunaka with Text and Translation. Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. ISBN 8120801970. Doniger O'Flaherty, Wendy (1975). Hindu Myths. A Sourcebook Translated from the Sanskrit. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books. Doniger O'Flaherty, Wendy (1981). The Rig Veda. An Anthology. London: Penguin Books. Eggeling, Julius (1882). The Śatapatha-Brâhmaṇa According to the Text of the Mâdhyandina School. Part 1. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Elizarenkova, Tatyana J. (1995). Language and Style of the Vedic Ṛṣis. Albany: State University of New York Press. ISBN 0791416674. Griffith, Ralph T. H. (1889). The Hymns of the Rigveda. Benares: E. J. Lazarus and co. Griffith, Ralph T. H. (1916). The Hymns of the Atharva-Veda. Vol. 1. Benares: E. J. Lazarus and co. Haug, Martin (1863). The Aitareya Brahmanam of the Rigveda. Vol. II. Bombay: Government Central Book Depot. Jamison, Stephanie W.; Brereton, Joel P. (2014). The Rigveda. The Earliest Religious Poetry of India. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199370184. Klostermaier, Klaus (1984). Mythologies and Philosophies of Salvation in the Theistic Traditions of India. Waterloo: Canadian Corporation for Studies in Religion. ISBN 0889201587. Maurer, Walter H. (1986). Pinnacles of India's Past. Selections from the Ṛgveda. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company. ISBN 0915027623. Mey, Jacob L. (2002). "The relation between micro- and macropragmatics in modern language studies". In Hansen, Hans Lauge (ed.). Changing Philologies. Contributions to the Redefinition of Foreign Language Studies in the Age of Globalisation. Copenhagen: Museum Tusculanum Press. pp. 89–104. ISBN 8772897902. Patton, Laurie L. (2005). Bringing the Gods to Mind. Mantra and Ritual in Early Indian Sacrifice. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0520240872. Perry, Edward Delavan (1885). "Indra in the Rig-Veda". Journal of the American Oriental Society. 11: 117–208. doi:10.2307/592191. JSTOR 592191. Puhvel, Jaan (1987). Comparative Mythology. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0801839386. Rosen, Friedrich August (1838). Rigveda-Sanhita. Liber primus. Sanskritè et latinè. London: The Oriental Translation Fund of Great Britain and Ireland. Watkins, Calvert (1987). "How to kill a dragon in Indo-European". In Watkins, C. (ed.). Studies in memory of Warren Cowgill (1929–1985). Berlin: de Gruyter. pp. 270–299. Watkins, Calvert (1995). How to Kill a Dragon. Aspects of Indo-European Poetics. New York, Oxford: Oxford University Press. West, M. L. (2007). Indo-European Poetry and Myth. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Witzel, Michael; Gotō, Toshifumi (2007). Rig-Veda. Erster und zweiter Liederkreis. Frankfurt am Main: Verlag der Weltreligionen. Witzel, Michael (2018). "Ṛṣis". Brill’s Encyclopedia of Hinduism Online. Brill. Retrieved July 16, 2024. Wilson, H. H. (1866). Rig-Veda Sanhitá. London: N. Trübner and co.
Rigveda 1.32 : Sanskrit text with audio Metrically restored text
Piers Shonks : Sir Piers Shonks was a legendary figure in the village of Brent Pelham in Hertfordshire, England, whose tomb is within the north wall of the village's church. According to local legend, Shonks slew a dragon that was causing havoc in the district and later cheated the Devil from claiming his soul by being buried within the walls of the church.
Piers Shonks : Legend has it that Sir Piers Shonks was the local lord of the manor; the earthworks of his moated manor house can still be seen to the east of Brent Pelham, known locally as Shonkes. According to the legend, Shonks returned from a holiday to discover that a fearsome dragon had moved into the Brent Pelham area and was wreaking havoc on the district, with all of the local crops burnt and ruined. The dragon was said to have created its lair in a cave under the roots of a great and ancient Yew tree that once stood on the boundary of two fields, known as Great Pepsells and Little Pepsells fields. The dragon was said to be the favourite of the Devil himself. Determined to rid the district of the dragon, Shonks set off to hunt the beast, dressed in full armour with a sword and spear or lance; Shonks was said to be accompanied by an attendant and three favourite hounds, all were said to be so swift it was thought they had wings. After a lengthy hunt Shonks located the dragon in its lair; a ferocious struggle ensued and eventually, whilst the hounds snapped at the dragon's legs, Shonks managed to kill the monster by thrusting his spear down its throat. After slaying the dragon Shonks was said to be puzzled by the thick smell of sulphur in the air, and turning around he found the Devil standing behind him. The Devil was said to be so enraged by the killing of his creature that he vowed to take his revenge upon Shonks, saying that he would claim Shonks's body and soul upon Shonks's death; and further Shonks could not evade this fate by being buried either inside or outside the Brent Pelham church. Shonks was said to be unmoved by the Devil's threats and retorted that his soul belonged to God and his body would rest wherever he chose. Most versions of the story state Shonks lived for many years after slaying the dragon, although writing in 1700 the local historian Henry Chauncy wrote Shonks was mortally wounded whilst battling with the dragon and died soon afterwards. In one version of the legend, Shonks requested to be buried in the wall of the church so as to be neither inside nor outside it, and thus frustrate the Devil's vow. A different version says that as Shonks lay dying he asked for a bow and arrow, shooting the arrow into the air he stated that he should be buried wherever the arrow landed. The arrow flew through an open window in the Brent Pelham church and lodged in the church's north wall and so it was decided that upon his death Shonks would be buried within the wall of the church. As he was buried inside the wall of the church, which was neither inside nor outside the church, Shonks's soul was said to be beyond the Devil's grasp and so the Devil was denied his revenge. A less commonly told version of the legend is that Piers Shonks was a giant who bested a rival in Barkway.
Piers Shonks : Piers Shonks's tomb, which is believed to date from between the 11th and 13th centuries, can be seen inside St Mary's Church in Brent Pelham, it is set in a deep recess within the northern wall of the church's nave. The tomb has an elaborately carved, heavily restored marble cover that can be dated stylistically to the 13th century. It depicts the Four Evangelists, an angel carrying a soul away to heaven and a large foliated cross the foot of which is thrust through the mouth of a two legged dragon. The tomb itself bears no inscription, but above it is a tablet believed to have been added by the church's vicar in the 17th century, it is inscribed in Latin and English, the English part reads:
Piers Shonks : It is believed the tomb in the Brent Pelham church may have given rise to the legend of Piers Shonks slaying a dragon and cheating the Devil. The tomb's depiction of a dragon with a cross thrust through its mouth could have inspired the story of slaying a dragon and given the detail of how the dragon was dispatched. The inclusion of an angel carrying a soul to heaven may have inspired the story of the Devil claiming Shonks's soul, whilst its unusual location within the walls of the church could have initiated the story of cheating the Devil. The Four Evangelists depicted on the tomb as one winged man and three winged beasts may have given rise to the tradition of a winged attendant and winged hounds. It is recorded that a family named Shank did possess property in the Brent Pelham parish in the 14th century, including the manor-house Shonkes, and that one member of the family, Peter Shank, was granted another manor-house in the Barkway parish by the Earl of Arundel. It has been speculated that this Peter Shank may have been the Piers Shonks of the legend. It is unknown where the tradition of Shonks's death inscribed on the tomb as the year 1086 came from, potentially from an earlier lost account. The Yew tree that was said to be the dragon's lair was mentioned in a tithe audit compiled between 1895 and 1900, which stated the tree was felled around 1820 and the root hole beneath the tree had been used as a stile on a footpath between Great Pepsells and Little Pepsells fields. It has been speculated from the descriptions of the tree that it may have been as much as 1000 years old at the time it was cut down, and from its location it may have been an Anglo-Saxon boundary tree, or possibly have been used to mark an early cemetery.
Piers Shonks : Gerish, William Blyth (1900). A Hertfordshire St. George: or, the story of O Piers Shonks and the Pelham dragon. Hadley, Christopher (2019). Hollow Places: An Unusual History of Land and Legend. William Collins.
Sigurd : Sigurd (Old Norse: Sigurðr [ˈsiɣˌurðr]) or Siegfried (Middle High German: Sîvrit) is a legendary hero of Germanic heroic legend, who killed a dragon—known in some Old Norse sources as Fáfnir—and who was later murdered. In both the Norse and continental Germanic tradition, Sigurd is portrayed as dying as the result of a quarrel between his wife (Gudrun/Kriemhild) and another woman, Brunhild, whom he has tricked into marrying the Burgundian king Gunnar/Gunther. His slaying of a dragon and possession of the hoard of the Nibelungen is also common to both traditions. In other respects, however, the two traditions appear to diverge. The most important works to feature Sigurd are the Nibelungenlied, the Völsunga saga, and the Poetic Edda. He also appears in numerous other works from both Germany and Scandinavia, including a series of medieval and early modern Scandinavian ballads. Sigurd's story is first attested on a series of carvings, including runestones from Sweden and stone crosses from the British Isles, dating from the 11th century. It is possible that he was inspired by one or more figures from the Frankish Merovingian dynasty, with Sigebert I being the most popular contender. Older scholarship sometimes connected him with Arminius, victor of the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest. He may also have a purely mythological origin. Richard Wagner used the legends about Sigurd/Siegfried in his operas Siegfried and Götterdämmerung. Wagner relied heavily on the Norse tradition in creating his version of Siegfried. His depiction of the hero has influenced many subsequent depictions. In the 19th and 20th centuries, Siegfried became heavily associated with German nationalism. The Thidrekssaga finishes its tale of Sigurd by saying: [E]veryone said that no man now living or ever after would be born who would be equal to him in strength, courage, and in all sorts of courtesy, as well as in boldness and generosity that he had above all men, and that his name would never perish in the German tongue, and the same was true with the Norsemen.
Sigurd : The names Sigurd and Siegfried do not share the same etymology. Both have the same first element, Proto-Germanic *sigi-, meaning victory. The second elements of the two names are different, however: in Siegfried, it is Proto-Germanic *-frið, meaning peace; in Sigurd, it is Proto-Germanic *-ward, meaning protection. Although they do not share the same second element, it is clear that surviving Scandinavian written sources held Siegfried to be the continental version of the name they called Sigurd. The normal form of Siegfried in Middle High German is Sîvrit or Sîfrit, with the *sigi- element contracted. This form of the name had been common even outside of heroic poetry since the 9th century, though the form Sigevrit is also attested, along with the Middle Dutch Zegevrijt. In Early Modern German, the name develops to Seyfrid or Seufrid (spelled Sewfrid). The modern form Siegfried is not attested frequently until the 17th century, after which it becomes more common. In modern scholarship, the form Sigfrid is sometimes used. The Old Norse name Sigurðr is contracted from an original *Sigvǫrðr, which in turn derives from an older *Sigi-warðuR. The Danish form Sivard also derives from this form originally. Hermann Reichert notes that the form of the root -vǫrðr instead of -varðr is only found in the name Sigurd, with other personal names instead using the form -varðr; he suggests that the form -vǫrðr may have had religious significance, whereas -varðr was purely non-religious in meaning. There are competing theories as to which name is original. Names equivalent to Siegfried are first attested in Anglo-Saxon Kent in the 7th century and become frequent in Anglo-Saxon England in the 9th century. Jan-Dirk Müller argues that this late date of attestation means that it is possible that Sigurd more accurately represents the original name. Wolfgang Haubrichs suggests that the form Siegfried arose in the bilingual Frankish kingdom as a result of romance-language influence on an original name *Sigi-ward. According to the normal phonetic principles, the Germanic name would have become Romance-language *Sigevert, a form which could also represent a Romance-language form of Germanic Sigefred. He further notes that *Sigevert would be a plausible Romance-language form of the name Sigebert (see Origins) from which both names could have arisen. As a second possibility, Haubrichs considers the option that metathesis of the r in *Sigi-ward could have taken place in Anglo-Saxon England, where variation between -frith and -ferth is well documented. Reichert, on the other hand, notes that Scandinavian figures who are attested in pre-12th-century German, English, and Irish sources as having names equivalent to Siegfried are systematically changed to forms equivalent to Sigurd in later Scandinavian sources. Forms equivalent to Sigurd, on the other hand, do not appear in pre-11th-century non-Scandinavian sources, and older Scandinavian sources sometimes call persons Sigfroðr Sigfreðr or Sigfrǫðr who are later called Sigurðr. He argues from this evidence that a form equivalent to Siegfried is the older form of Sigurd's name in Scandinavia as well.
Sigurd : Unlike many figures of Germanic heroic tradition, Sigurd cannot be easily identified with a historical figure. The most popular theory is that Sigurd has his origins in one or several figures of the Merovingian dynasty of the Franks: the Merovingians had several kings whose name began with the element *sigi-. In particular, the murder of Sigebert I (d. 575), who was married to Brunhilda of Austrasia, is often cited as a likely inspiration for the figure, a theory that was first proposed in 1613. Sigibert was murdered by his brother Chilperic I at the instigation of Chilperic's wife queen Fredegunda. If this theory is correct, then in the legend, Fredegunda and Brunhilda appear to have switched roles, while Chilperic has been replaced with Gunther. Jens Haustein (2005) argues that, while the story of Sigurd appears to have Merovingian resonances, no connection to any concrete historical figure or event is convincing. As the Merovingian parallels are not exact, other scholars also fail to accept the proposed model. But the Sigurd/Siegfried figure, rather than being based on the Merovingian alone, may be a composite of additional historical personages, e.g., the "Caroliginian Sigifridus" alias Godfrid, Duke of Frisia (d. 855) according to Edward Fichtner (2015). Franz-Joseph Mone (1830) had also believed Siegfried to be an amalgamation of several historical figures, and was the first to suggest possible connection with the Germanic hero Arminius from the Roman period, famed for defeating Publius Quinctilius Varus's three legions at the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest in 9 AD. Later Adolf Giesebrecht (1837) asserted outright that Sigurd/Siegfried was a mythologized version of Arminius. Although this position was taken more recently by Otto Höfler (beginning in 1959), who also suggested that Gnita-Heath, the name of the place where Sigurd kills the dragon in the Scandinavian tradition, represents the battlefield for the Teutoburg Forest, modern scholarship generally dismisses a connection between Sigurd and Arminius as tenuous speculation. The idea that Sigurd derives from Arminius nevertheless continues to be promoted outside of the academic sphere, including in popular magazines such as Der Spiegel. It has also been suggested by others that Sigurd may be a purely mythological figure without a historical origin. Nineteenth-century scholars frequently derived the Sigurd story from myths about Germanic deities including Odin, Baldr, and Freyr; such derivations are no longer generally accepted. Catalin Taranu argues that Sigurd's slaying of the dragon ultimately has Indo-European origins, and that this story later became attached to the story of the murder of the Merovingian Sigebert I.
Sigurd : Continental Germanic traditions about Siegfried enter writing with the Nibelungenlied around 1200. The German tradition strongly associates Siegfried with a kingdom called "Niederland" (Middle High German Niderlant), which, despite its name, is not the same as the modern Netherlands, but describes Siegfried's kingdom around the city of Xanten. The late medieval Heldenbuch-Prosa identifies "Niederland" with the area around Worms but describes it as a separate kingdom from King Gibich's land (i.e. the Burgundian kingdom).
Sigurd : In contrast to the surviving continental traditions, Scandinavian stories about Sigurd have a strong connection to Germanic mythology. While older scholarship took this to represent the original form of the Sigurd story, newer scholarship is more inclined to see it as a development of the tradition that is unique to Scandinavia. While some elements of the Scandinavian tradition may indeed be older than the surviving continental witnesses, a good deal seems to have been transformed by the context of the Christianization of Iceland and Scandinavia: the frequent appearance of the heathen gods gives the heroic stories the character of an epoch that is irrevocably over. Although the earliest attestations for the Scandinavian tradition are pictorial depictions, because these images can only be understood with a knowledge of the stories they depict, they are listed last here.
Sigurd : It is difficult to trace the development of the traditions surrounding Sigurd. If the theory that he has his origins in Sigebert I is correct, then the earliest part of the tradition would be his murder as the result of a feud between two women, in real life between his wife Brunhild of Austrasia and Fredegund, in the saga then between his wife Kriemhild/Gudrun and Brünhild/Brynhild. The earliest attested tradition about Sigurd is his slaying of a dragon, however, which supports the notion that he may have a purely mythological origin, or that he represents the combination of a mythological figure with a historical one.
Sigurd : Siegfried remained a popular figure in Germany via Das Lied vom Hürnen Seyfrid and its prose version, the Historia vom gehörnten Siegfried, the latter of which was still printed in the 19th century. The prose version was popular enough that in 1660 a sequel was written about Siegfried's son with "Florigunda" (Kriemhild), Löwhardus. The Nibelungenlied, on the other hand, was forgotten until it was rediscovered in 1755. The majority of the Scandinavian material about Sigurd remained better known through the early modern period to the 19th century due to the so-called "Scandinavian Renaissance", which resulted in knowledge of Eddic poems influencing the popular ballads about Sigurd in Scandinavian folklore. Originally, modern reception of Siegfried in Germany was dominated by a sentimental view of the figure, shown in the many paintings and images produced in this time depicting Siegfried taking leave from Kriemhild, the first encounter of Siegfried and Kriemhild, their wedding, etc. A nationalist tone and attempt to make Siegfried into a national icon and symbol was nevertheless already present in attempts to connect Siegfried to the historical Arminius, who was already established as a national hero in Germany since the 16th century. The Norse tradition about Sigurd, which was considered to be more "original" and Germanic, in many ways replaced direct engagement with the German Nibelungenlied, and was highly influential in the conception of the Siegfried figure in Richard Wagner's opera cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen (1874). Wagner's portrayal of Siegfried was to influence the modern public's view of the figure immensely. With the founding of the German Empire (1871), the German view of Siegfried became more nationalistic: Siegfried was seen as an identifying epic figure for the new German Empire and his reforging of his father's sword in the Nordic tradition was equated with Otto von Bismarck "reuniting" the German nation. Numerous paintings, monuments, and fountains of Siegfried date from this time period. Following the defeat of imperial Germany in the First World War, Siegfried's murder by Hagen was extensively used in right-wing propaganda that claimed that leftist German politicians had stabbed the undefeated German army in the back by agreeing to an armistice. This comparison was explicitly made by Adolf Hitler in Mein Kampf and by Paul von Hindenburg in his political testament. Nazi propaganda came to use Siegfried "to symbolize the qualities of healthy and virile German men." Siegfried's murder by Hagen was further used to illustrate Nazi racial theories about the inherent evilness of certain "non-German" races, to which Hagen, typically depicted as dark, was seen as belonging. Outside of Germany and Scandinavia, most of the reception of Sigurd has been mediated through, or at least influenced by, his depiction in Wagner's Ring.
Sigurd : Sigebert I Siegfried Line Siegfried (opera) Sigurd (opera) Arminius Achilles, a similarly invulnerable warrior from Greek myth with a single mortal weakness that resulted in his downfall Duryodhana, a similarly invulnerable warrior with a single mortal weakness from the Sanskrit epic, the Mahabharatha Esfandiyar, a similarly invulnerable warrior with a single mortal weakness from the Persian epic, the Shahnameh
Sigurd : Media related to Siegfried at Wikimedia Commons Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Sigurd" . Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : Susanoo (スサノオ; historical orthography: スサノヲ, 'Susanowo'), often referred to by the honorific title Susanoo-no-Mikoto, is a kami in Japanese mythology. The younger brother of Amaterasu, goddess of the sun and mythical ancestress of the Japanese imperial line, he is a multifaceted deity with contradictory characteristics (both good and bad), being portrayed in various stories either as a wild, impetuous god associated with the sea and storms, as a heroic figure who killed a monstrous serpent, or as a local deity linked with the harvest and agriculture. Syncretic beliefs of the Gion cult that arose after the introduction of Buddhism to Japan also saw Susanoo becoming conflated with deities of pestilence and disease. Susanoo, alongside Amaterasu and the earthly kami Ōkuninushi (also Ōnamuchi) – depicted as either Susanoo's son or scion depending on the source – is one of the central deities of the imperial Japanese mythological cycle recorded in the Kojiki (c. 712 CE) and the Nihon Shoki (720 CE). One of the gazetteer reports (Fudoki) commissioned by the imperial court during the same period these texts were written, that of Izumo Province (modern Shimane Prefecture) in western Japan, also contains a number of short legends concerning Susanoo or his children, suggesting a connection between the god and this region. In addition, a few other myths also hint at a connection between Susanoo and the Korean Peninsula.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : Susanoo's name is variously given in the Kojiki as 'Takehaya-Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (建速須佐之男命), 'Haya-Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (速須佐之男命), or simply as 'Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (須佐之男命). -no-Mikoto is a common honorific appended to the names of Japanese gods; it may be understood as similar to the English honorific 'the Great'. He is meanwhile named in the Nihon Shoki as 'Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (素戔嗚尊), 'Kamu-Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (神素戔嗚尊), 'Haya-Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (速素戔嗚尊), and 'Take-Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (武素戔嗚尊). The Fudoki of Izumo Province renders his name both as 'Kamu-Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (神須佐能袁命) and 'Susanoo-no-Mikoto' (須佐能乎命). In these texts the following honorific prefixes are attached to his name: take- (建/武, "brave"), haya- (速, "swift"), and kamu- (神, "divine"). The susa in Susanoo's name has been variously explained as being derived from either of the following words: The verb susabu or susamu meaning 'to be impetuous,' 'to be violent,' or 'to go wild' The verb susumu, 'to advance' The township of Susa (須佐郷) in Iishi District, Izumo Province (modern Shimane Prefecture) A word related to the Middle Korean 'susung', meaning 'master' or 'shaman'
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : The image of Susanoo that can be gleaned from various texts is rather complex and contradictory. In the Kojiki and the Shoki he is portrayed first as a petulant young man, then as an unpredictable, violent boor who causes chaos and destruction before turning into a monster-slaying culture hero after descending into the world of men, while in the Izumo Fudoki, he is simply a local god apparently connected with rice fields, with almost none of the traits associated with him in the imperial mythologies being mentioned. Due to his multifaceted nature, various authors have had differing opinions regarding Susanoo's origins and original character. The Edo period kokugaku scholar Motoori Norinaga, in his Kojiki-den (Commentary on the Kojiki), characterized Susanoo as an evil god in contrast to his elder siblings Amaterasu and Tsukuyomi, as the unclean air of the land of the dead still adhered to Izanagi's nose from which he was born and was not purified completely during Izanagi's ritual ablutions. The early 20th century historian Tsuda Sōkichi, who put forward the then-controversial theory that the Kojiki's accounts were not based on history (as Edo period kokugaku and State Shinto ideology believed them to be) but rather propagandistic myths concocted to explain and legitimize the rule of the imperial dynasty, also saw Susanoo as a negative figure, arguing that he was created to serve as the rebellious opposite of the imperial ancestress Amaterasu. Ethnologist Ōbayashi Taryō, speaking from the standpoint of comparative mythology, opined that the stories concerning the three deities were ultimately derived from a continental (Southeast Asian) myth in which the Sun, the Moon and the Dark Star are siblings and the Dark Star plays an antagonistic role (cf. Rahu and Ketu from Hindu religion); Ōbayashi thus also interprets Susanoo as a bad hero. Other scholars, however, take the position that Susanoo was not originally conceived of as a negative deity. Mythologist Matsumura Takeo for instance believed the Izumo Fudoki to more accurately reflect Susanoo's original character: a peaceful, simple kami of the rice fields. In Matsumura's view, Susanoo's character was deliberately reversed when he was grafted into the imperial mythology by the compilers of the Kojiki. Matsumoto Nobuhiro, in a similar vein, interpreted Susanoo as a harvest deity. While the Izumo Fudoki claims that the township of Susa in Izumo is named after its deity Susanoo, it has been proposed that the opposite might have actually been the case and Susanoo was named after the place, with his name being understood in this case as meaning "Man (o) of Susa." While both Matsumura and Matsumoto preferred to connect Susanoo with rice fields and the harvest, Matsumae Takeshi put forward the theory that Susanoo was originally worshiped as a patron deity of sailors. Unlike other scholars who connect Susanoo with Izumo, Matsumae instead saw Kii Province (the modern prefectures of Wakayama and Mie) as the birthplace of Susanoo worship, pointing out that there was also a settlement in Kii named Susa (須佐). (In the Kojiki, Ōnamuji enters Susanoo's realm, Ne-no-Kuni, through the fork of a tree in Kii.) Matsumae proposed that the worship of Susanoo was brought to other places in Japan by seafaring peoples from Kii, a land rich in timber (the province's name is itself derived from the word ki meaning 'tree'). A few myths, such as that of Susanoo's descent in Soshimori in Silla, seem to suggest a connection between the god and the Korean Peninsula. Indeed, some scholars have hypothesized that the deities who were eventually conflated with Susanoo, Mutō Tenjin, and Gozu Tennō, may have had Korean origins as well, with the name 'Mutō' (武塔, historical orthography: mutau) being linked with the Korean word mudang "shamaness," and 'Gozu' being explained as a calque of 'Soshimori', here interpreted as being derived from a Korean toponym meaning 'Bull's (so) Head (mari)'. The name 'Susanoo' itself has been interpreted as being related to the Middle Korean title susung (transliterated as 次次雄 or 慈充), meaning 'master' or 'shaman', notably applied to Namhae, the second king of Silla, in the Samguk Sagi. Susanoo is thus supposed in this view to have originally been a foreign god (蕃神, banshin), perhaps a deified shaman, whose origins may be traced back to Korea. Emilia Gadeleva (2000) sees Susanoo's original character as being that of a rain god – more precisely, a god associated with rainmaking – with his association with the harvest and a number of other elements from his myths ultimately springing from his connection with rainwater. He thus serves as a contrast and a parallel to Amaterasu, the goddess of the sun. Gadeleva also acknowledges the foreign elements in the god's character by supposing that rainmaking rituals and concepts were brought to Japan in ancient times from the continent, with the figure of the Korean shaman (susung) who magically controlled the abundance of rain eventually morphing into the Japanese Susanoo, but at the same time stresses that Susanoo is not completely a foreign import but must have had Japanese roots at his core. In Gadeleva's view, while the god certainly underwent drastic changes upon his introduction in the imperial myth cycle, Susanoo's character already bore positive and negative features since the beginning, with both elements stemming from his association with rain. As the right quantity of rainwater was vital for ensuring a rich harvest, calamities caused by too much or too little rainfall (i.e. floods, drought, or epidemics) would have been blamed on the rain god for not doing his job properly. This, according to Gadeleva, underlies the occasional portrayal of Susanoo in a negative light.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto :  In addition to his connections with the sea and tempests, due to his mythical role as the slayer of the Yamata no Orochi and his historical association with pestilence deities such as Gozu Tennō, Susanoo is also venerated as a god who wards off misfortune and calamity, being invoked especially against illness and disease. As his heroic act helped him win the hand of Kushinadahime, he is also considered to be a patron of love and marriage, such as in Hikawa Shrine in Saitama Prefecture (see below).
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : The iwami kagura – Orochi The jōruri – Nihon Furisode Hajime (日本振袖始) by Chikamatsu Monzaemon
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : In the 20th century, Susanoo was depicted as the common ancestor of the modern Koreans while the Japanese were considered to be descendants of Amaterasu during the Japanese occupation of Korea by historians such as Shiratori Kurakichi, founder of the discipline of Oriental History (Tōyōshi 東洋史) in Tokyo Imperial University. The theory linked the Koreans to Susanoo and in turn the Japanese which ultimately legitimized the colonization of the Korean peninsula by the Japanese.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : Yamata Amasung Keibu Keioiba (English: Yamata-no-Orochi and Keibu Keioiba) is a Meitei language play that interweaves the stories of the two legendary creatures, Yamata-no-Orochi slain by Susanoo of Japanese folklore and Keibu Keioiba of Meitei folklore (Manipuri folklore). In the play, the role of Susanoo was played by Romario Thoudam Paona. Along with Yamato Takeru, he was portrayed by Toshiro Mifune in The Birth of Japan. The film suggests Susanoo's grief over Izanami and resentment towards Izanagi caused his violent rampage.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : Ama no Fuchigoma Amaterasu Bhaisajyaguru Gion Matsuri Izanagi Izumo Province Kusanagi
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : Aoki, Michiko Y., tr. (1997). Records of Wind and Earth: A Translation of Fudoki, with Introduction and Commentaries. Association for Asian Studies, Inc. ISBN 978-0924304323. Aston, William George, tr. (1896). Nihongi: Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Times to A.D. 697. 2 vols. Kegan Paul. 1972 Tuttle reprint. Chamberlain, Basil H., tr. (1919). The Kojiki, Records of Ancient Matters. 1981 Tuttle reprint. Gadeleva, Emilia (2000). "Susanoo: One of the Central Gods in Japanese Mythology". Nichibunken Japan Review: Bulletin of the International Research Center for Japanese Studies. 12 (12). International Research Center for Japanese Studies: 168. doi:10.15055/00000288. JSTOR 25791053. McMullin, Neil (February 1988). "On Placating the Gods and Pacifying the Populace: The Case of the Gion "Goryō" Cult". History of Religions. 27 (3). The University of Chicago Press: 270–293. doi:10.1086/463123. JSTOR 1062279. S2CID 162357693. Philippi, Donald L. (2015). Kojiki. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-1400878000.
Susanoo-no-Mikoto : Susanoo, Encyclopedia of Shinto Susano-O no Mikoto, Kimberley Winkelmann, in the Internet Archive as of 5 December 2008 Shaji Enza no Kai Organization Official Website of Susa Shrine (in Japanese) Official Website of Yasaka Shrine (in Japanese) Official Website of Kumano Taisha (in Japanese) Official Website of Hikawa Shrine (Saitama) (in Japanese) Official Website of Akasaka Hikawa Shrine (in Japanese) Susanoo vs Yamata no Orochi animated depiction
Thor : Thor (from Old Norse: Þórr) is a prominent god in Germanic paganism. In Norse mythology, he is a hammer-wielding god associated with lightning, thunder, storms, sacred groves and trees, strength, the protection of humankind, hallowing, and fertility. Besides Old Norse Þórr, the deity occurs in Old English as Thunor, in Old Frisian as Thuner, in Old Saxon as Thunar, and in Old High German as Donar, all ultimately stemming from the Proto-Germanic theonym *Þun(a)raz, meaning 'Thunder'. Thor is a prominently mentioned god throughout the recorded history of the Germanic peoples, from the Roman occupation of regions of Germania, to the Germanic expansions of the Migration Period, to his high popularity during the Viking Age, when, in the face of the process of the Christianization of Scandinavia, emblems of his hammer, Mjölnir, were worn and Norse pagan personal names containing the name of the god bear witness to his popularity. Narratives featuring Thor are most prominently attested in Old Norse, where Thor appears throughout Norse mythology. In stories recorded in medieval Iceland, Thor bears at least fifteen names, is the husband of the golden-haired goddess Sif and the lover of the jötunn Járnsaxa. With Sif, Thor fathered the goddess (and possible valkyrie) Þrúðr; with Járnsaxa, he fathered Magni; with a mother whose name is not recorded, he fathered Móði, and he is the stepfather of the god Ullr. Thor is the son of Odin and Jörð, by way of his father Odin, he has numerous brothers, including Baldr. Thor has two servants, Þjálfi and Röskva, rides in a cart or chariot pulled by two goats, Tanngrisnir and Tanngnjóstr (whom he eats and resurrects), and is ascribed three dwellings (Bilskirnir, Þrúðheimr, and Þrúðvangr). Thor wields the hammer Mjölnir, wears the belt Megingjörð and the iron gloves Járngreipr, and owns the staff Gríðarvölr. Thor's exploits, including his relentless slaughter of his foes and fierce battles with the monstrous serpent Jörmungandr—and their foretold mutual deaths during the events of Ragnarök—are recorded throughout sources for Norse mythology. Into the modern period, Thor continued to be acknowledged in folklore throughout Germanic-speaking Europe. Thor is frequently referred to in place names, the day of the week Thursday bears his name (modern English Thursday derives from Old English thunresdaeġ, 'Thunor's day'), and names stemming from the pagan period containing his own continue to be used today, particularly in Scandinavia. Thor has inspired numerous works of art and references to Thor appear in modern popular culture. Like other Germanic deities, veneration of Thor is revived in the modern period in Heathenry.
Thor : The name Thor is derived from Norse mythology. Its medieval Germanic equivalents or cognates are Donar (Old High German), Þunor (Old English), Thuner (Old Frisian), Thunar (Old Saxon), and Þórr (Old Norse), the latter of which inspired the form Thor. Though Old Norse Þórr has only one syllable, it too comes from an earlier, Proto-Norse two-syllable form which can be reconstructed as *Þunarr and/or *Þunurr (evidenced by the poems Hymiskviða and Þórsdrápa, and modern Elfdalian tųosdag 'Thursday'), through the common Old Norse development of the sequence -unr- to -ór-. All these forms of Thor's name descend from Proto-Germanic, but there is debate as to precisely what form the name took at that early stage. The form *Þunraz has been suggested and has the attraction of clearly containing the sequence -unr-, needed to explain the later form Þórr.: 708 The form *Þunuraz is suggested by Elfdalian tųosdag ('Thursday') and by a runic inscription from around 700 from Hallbjäns in Sundre, Gotland, which includes the sequence "þunurþurus".: 709–11 Finally, *Þunaraz is attractive because it is identical to the name of the ancient Celtic god Taranus (by metathesis–switch of sounds–of an earlier *Tonaros, attested in the dative tanaro and the Gaulish river name Tanarus), and further related to the Latin epithet Tonans (attached to Jupiter), via the common Proto-Indo-European root for 'thunder' *(s)tenh₂-. According to scholar Peter Jackson, those theonyms may have emerged as the result of the fossilization of an original epithet (or epiclesis, i.e. invocational name) of the Proto-Indo-European thunder-god *Perkwunos, since the Vedic weather-god Parjanya is also called stanayitnú- ('Thunderer'). The potentially perfect match between the thunder-gods *Tonaros and *Þunaraz, which both go back to a common form *ton(a)ros ~ *tṇros, is notable in the context of early Celtic–Germanic linguistic contacts, especially when added to other inherited terms with thunder attributes, such as *Meldunjaz–*meldo- (from *meldh- 'lightning, hammer', i.e. *Perkwunos' weapon) and *Fergunja–*Fercunyā (from *perkwun-iyā 'wooded mountains', i.e. *Perkwunos' realm). The English weekday name Thursday comes from Old English Þunresdæg, meaning 'day of Þunor', with influence from Old Norse Þórsdagr. The name is cognate with Old High German Donarestag. All of these terms derive from a Late Proto-Germanic weekday name along the lines of *Þunaresdagaz ('Day of *Þun(a)raz'), a calque of Latin Iovis dies ('Day of Jove'; cf. modern Italian giovedì, French jeudi, Spanish jueves). By employing a practice known as interpretatio germanica during the Roman period, ancient Germanic peoples adopted the Latin weekly calendar and replaced the names of Roman gods with their own. Beginning in the Viking Age, personal names containing the theonym Þórr are recorded with great frequency, whereas no examples are known prior to this period. Þórr-based names may have flourished during the Viking Age as a defiant response to attempts at Christianization, similar to the widespread Viking Age practice of wearing Thor's hammer pendants.
Thor : Numerous place names in Scandinavia contain the Old Norse name Þórr. The identification of these place names as pointing to religious significance is complicated by the aforementioned common usage of Þórr as a personal name element. Cultic significance may only be assured in place names containing the elements -vé (signifying the location of a vé, a type of pagan Germanic shrine), –hóf (a structure used for religious purposes, see heathen hofs), and –lundr (a holy grove). The place name Þórslundr is recorded with particular frequency in Denmark (and has direct cognates in Norse settlements in Ireland, such as Coill Tomair), whereas Þórshof appears particularly often in southern Norway. Torsö (Thor's Island) appears on the Swedish west coast. Thor also appears in many place names in Uppland. In English place names, Old English Thunor (in contrast with the Old Norse form of the name, later introduced to the Danelaw) left comparatively few traces. Examples include Thundersley, from *Thunores hlæw and Thurstable (Old English "Thunor's pillar"). F. M. Stenton noted that such place names were apparently restricted to Saxon and Jutish territory and not found in Anglian areas. In what is now Germany, locations named after Thor are sparsely recorded, but a number of locations called Donnersberg (German "Donner's mountain") may derive their name from the deity Donner, the southern Germanic form of the god's name. In as late as the 19th century in Iceland, a specific breed of fox was known as holtaþórr ("Thor of the holt"), likely due to the red coat of the breed. In Sweden in the 19th century, smooth, wedge-shaped stones found in the earth were called Thorwiggar ("Thor's wedges"), according to a folk belief that they were once hurled at a troll by the god Thor. (Compare Thunderstones.) Similarly, meteorites may be considered memorials to Thor in folk tradition due to their sheer weight. On the Swedish island of Gotland, a species of beetle (Scarabæus stercorarius) was named after the god; the Thorbagge. When the beetle is found turned upside down and one flips it over, Thor's favor may be gained. In other regions of Sweden the name of the beetle appears to have been demonized with Christianization, where the insect came to be known as Thordedjefvul or Thordyfvel (both meaning "Thor-devil"). In the northwest of Spain, there is a river called Torío in the municipality of Cármenes (León) that take name from the god Thor.
Thor : Thor closely resembles other Indo-European deities associated with the thunder: the Celtic Taranis, the Estonian Taara (or Tharapita), the Baltic Perkūnas, the Slavic Perun, and particularly the Hindu Indra, whose thunderbolt weapon the vajra is an obvious parallels noted already by Max Müller. Scholars have compared Indra's slaying of Vritra with Thor's battle with Jörmungandr. Although in the past it was suggested that Thor was an indigenous sky god or a Viking Age import into Scandinavia, these Indo-European parallels make him generally accepted today as ultimately derived from a Proto-Indo-European deity. In Georges Dumézil's trifunctional hypothesis of Indo-European religion, Thor represents the second function, that of strength. Dumézil notes that as a result of displacements, he does not lead armies; most of the functions of Indra have been in effect taken over by Odin. Many scholars have noted the association of Thor with fertility, particularly in later folklore and in the reflex of him represented by the Sami Hora galles ("Good-man Thor"). For Dumézil, this is the preservation by peasants of only the side-effect of the god's atmospheric battles: the fertilizing rain. Others have emphasized Thor's close connection to humanity, in all its concerns. Scholar Hilda Ellis Davidson summarizes: The cult of Thor was linked with men's habitation and possessions, and with the well-being of the family and community. This included the fruitfulness of the fields, and Thor, although pictured primarily as a storm god in the myths, was also concerned with the fertility and preservation of the seasonal round. In our own times, little stone axes from the distant past have been used as fertility symbols and placed by the farmer in the holes made by the drill to receive the first seed of spring. Thor's marriage with Sif of the golden hair, about which we hear little in the myths, seems to be a memory of the ancient symbol of divine marriage between sky god and earth goddess, when he comes to earth in the thunderstorm and the storm brings the rain which makes the fields fertile. In this way Thor, as well as Odin, may be seen to continue the cult of the sky god which was known in the Bronze Age.
Thor : In modern times, Thor continues to be referred to in art and fiction. Starting with F. J. Klopstock's 1776 ode to Thor, Wir und Sie, Thor has been the subject of poems in several languages, including Adam Gottlob Oehlenschläger's 1807 epic poem Thors reise til Jotunheim and, by the same author, three more poems (Hammeren hentes, Thors fiskeri, and Thor besøger Hymir) collected in his 1819 Nordens Guder; Thors Trunk (1859) by Wilhelm Hertz; the 1820 satirical poem Mythologierne eller Gudatvisten by J. M. Stiernstolpe; Nordens Mythologie eller Sinnbilled-Sprog (1832) by N. F. S. Grundtvig; the poem Harmen by Thor Thorild; Der Mythus von Thor (1836) by Ludwig Uhland; Der Hammer Thors (1915) by W. Schulte v. Brühl; Hans Friedrich Blunck's Herr Dunnar und die Bauern (published in Märchen und Sagen, 1937); and Die Heimholung des Hammers (1977) by H. C. Artmann. In English he features for example in Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's "The Challenge of Thor" (1863) and in two works by Rudyard Kipling: Letters of Travel: 1892–1913 and "Cold Iron" in Rewards and Fairies. L. Sprague de Camp's Harold Shea met with Thor, as with other Norse gods, in the first of Shea's many fantasy adventures. Artists have also depicted Thor in painting and sculpture, including Henry Fuseli's 1780 painting Thor Battering the Midgard Serpent; H. E. Freund's 1821–1822 statue Thor; B. E. Fogelberg's 1844 marble statue Thor; Mårten Eskil Winge's 1872 painting Thor's Fight with the Giants; K. Ehrenberg's 1883 drawing Odin, Thor und Magni; several illustrations by E. Doepler published in Wilhelm Ranisch's 1901 Walhall (Thor; Thor und die Midgardschlange; Thor den Hrungnir bekämpfend; Thor bei dem Riesen Þrym als Braut verkleidet; Thor bei Hymir; Thor bei Skrymir; Thor den Fluß Wimur durchwatend); J. C. Dollman's 1909 drawings Thor and the Mountain and Sif and Thor; G. Poppe's painting Thor; E. Pottner's 1914 drawing Thors Schatten; H. Natter's marble statue Thor; and U. Brember's 1977 illustrations to Die Heimholung des Hammers by H. C. Artmann. In the fields of science and technology, Swedish chemist Jöns Jacob Berzelius (1779–1848) discovered a chemical element that he named after Thor – thorium. Thor is also the namesake of the PGM-17 Thor missile. In 1962, American comic book artist Jack Kirby, Marvel Comics editor Stan Lee and his brother Larry Lieber created a feature in the comic book Journey Into Mystery a series featuring Thor as a superhero. This version of Thor is portrayed as a clean-shaven blonde, instead of red-haired and bearded. The magazine soon added the backup feature "Tales of Asgard" in which Kirby illustrated stories from Norse mythology; eventually, the magazine was retitled Thor. Lee and Kirby included Thor as a founding member of their superhero team the Avengers. Thor has been portrayed in the Marvel Cinematic Universe by Australian actor Chris Hemsworth, appearing in Thor, The Avengers, Thor: The Dark World, Avengers: Age of Ultron, Doctor Strange, Team Thor, Thor: Ragnarok, Avengers: Infinity War, Avengers: Endgame and Thor: Love and Thunder. Thor has also been featured in comic books by other publishers. In the Savage Dragon comics, Thor is portrayed as a villain. In Neil Gaiman's Sandman comic, Thor is portrayed as a buffoon who wields a tiny toffee hammer. First described in 2013, Thor's hero shrew (Scutisorex thori) is a species of shrew native to the Democratic Republic of Congo. It and its sister species, the hero shrew (Scutisorex somereni), are the only mammal species known to have interlocking vertebrae. The team named the shrew after Thor due to the god's association with strength. From 2015 to 2017, a fictionalised version of Thor was a supporting character in Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard, a trilogy of fantasy novels written by American author Rick Riordan and published by Disney-Hyperion, set in the same fictional universe as the Camp Half-Blood Chronicles, and The Kane Chronicles series by the same author. Neil Gaiman's books American Gods and Norse Mythology also feature Thor. In January 2020, the streaming service Netflix produced Ragnarok. In the show, a high school student, Magne Seier, receives Thor's powers and abilities to fight the giants that are polluting Norway and murdering people. Netflix released the second season on 27 May 2021. Thor/Magne is portrayed by David Stakston. Thor is also featured in a number of video games. In the 2002 Ensemble Studios game Age of Mythology, Thor is one of three major gods Norse players can worship. In Santa Monica Studio's 2018 video game God of War, Thor is mentioned throughout and his sons Magni and Modi are secondary antagonists. Thor makes an appearance at the end of the main storyline if certain difficulty conditions are met by the player. He makes a much more substantial appearance in the game's 2022 sequel God of War Ragnarök as a primary antagonist, played by Ryan Hurst. Thor is also mentioned in Ubisoft's 2020 game Assassin's Creed Valhalla, where items of his such as Mjölnir can be found and used by the player in combat. Thor is also one of the playable gods in the third-person multiplayer online battle arena game Smite.
Thor : List of Germanic deities Hercules Magusanus Zeus Indra Perun Axe of Perun
Thor : MyNDIR (My Norse Digital Image Repository) Illustrations of Þórr from manuscripts and early print books.
*Trito : *Trito is a significant figure in Proto-Indo-European mythology, representing the first warrior and acting as a culture hero. He is connected to other prominent characters, such as Manu and Yemo, and is recognized as the protagonist of the myth of the warrior function, establishing the model for all later men of arms. In the legend, Trito is offered cattle as a divine gift by celestial gods, which is later stolen by a three-headed serpent named *H₂n̥gʷʰis ('serpent'). Despite initial defeat, Trito, fortified by an intoxicating drink and aided by the Sky-Father, or alternatively the Storm-God or *H₂nḗr, 'Man', together they go to a cave or a mountain, and the hero overcomes the monster and returns the recovered cattle to a priest for it to be properly sacrificed. He is now the first warrior, maintaining through his heroic deeds the cycle of mutual giving between gods and mortals. Scholars have interpreted the story of Trito either as a cosmic conflict between the heavenly hero and the earthly serpent or as an Indo-European victory over non-Indo-European people, with the monster symbolizing the aboriginal thief or usurper. Trito's character served as a model for later cattle-raiding epic myths and was seen as providing moral justification for cattle raiding. The legend of Trito is generally accepted among scholars and is recognized as an essential part of Proto-Indo-European mythology, although not to the level of Manu and Yemo.
*Trito : Following a first paper on the cosmogonical legend of Manu and Yemo, published simultaneously with Jaan Puhvel in 1975 (who pointed out the Roman reflex of the story), Bruce Lincoln assembled the initial part of the myth with the legend of the third man Trito in a single ancestral motif. Since the 1970s, the reconstructed motifs of Manu and Yemo, and to a lesser extent that of Trito, have been generally accepted among scholars.
*Trito : According to Lincoln the legend of Trito should be interpreted as "a myth of the warrior function, establishing the model for all later men of arms". While Manu and Yemo seem to be the protagonists of "a myth of the sovereign function, establishing the model for later priests and kings", The myth indeed recalls the Dumézilian tripartition of the cosmos between the priest (in both his magical and legal aspects), the warrior (the Third Man), and the herder (the cow). The story of Trito served as a model for later cattle raiding epic myths and most likely as a moral justification for the practice of raiding among Indo-European peoples. In the original legend, Trito is only taking back what rightfully belongs to his people, those who sacrifice properly to the gods. The myth has been interpreted either as a cosmic conflict between the heavenly hero and the earthly serpent, or as an Indo-European victory over non-Indo-European people, the monster symbolizing the aboriginal thief or usurper.
*Trito : Cognates stemming from the First Warrior *Trito ('Third') include the Vedic Trita, the hero who recovered the stolen cattle from the serpent Vṛtrá; the Avestan Thraētona ('son of Thrita'), who won back the abducted women from the serpent Aži Dahāka; and the Norse þriði ('Third'), one of the names of Óðinn. Other cognates may appear in the Greek expressions trítos sōtḗr (τρίτος σωτήρ; 'Third Saviour'), an epithet of Zeus, and tritogḗneia (τριτογήνεια; 'Third born' or 'born of Zeus'), an epithet of Athena; and perhaps in the Slavic mythical hero Trojan, found in Russian and Serbian legends alike. H₂n̥gʷʰis is a reconstructed noun meaning 'serpent'. Descendent cognates can be found in the Iranian Aži, the name of the inimical serpent, and in the Indic áhi ('serpent'), a term used to designate the monstrous serpent Vṛtrá, both descending from Proto-Indo-Iranian *Háǰʰiš.
*Trito : One common myth found in nearly all Indo-European mythologies is a battle ending with a hero or god slaying a serpent or dragon of some sort. Although the details of the story often vary widely, several features remain remarkably the same in all iterations. The protagonist of the story is usually a thunder-god, or a hero somehow associated with thunder. His enemy the serpent is generally associated with water and depicted as multi-headed, or else "multiple" in some other way. Indo-European myths often describe the creature as a "blocker of waters", and his many heads get eventually smashed up by the thunder-god in an epic battle, releasing torrents of water that had previously been pent up. The original legend may have symbolized the Chaoskampf, a clash between forces of order and chaos. The dragon or serpent loses in every version of the story, although in some mythologies, such as the Norse Ragnarök myth, the hero or the god dies with his enemy during the confrontation. Historian Bruce Lincoln has proposed that the dragon-slaying tale and the creation myth of *Trito killing the serpent *H₂n̥gʷʰis may actually belong to the same original story. Reflexes of the Proto-Indo-European dragon-slaying myth appear in most Indo-European poetic traditions, where the myth has left traces of the formulaic sentence *(h₁e) gʷʰent h₁ógʷʰim, meaning "[he] slew the serpent". In Hittite mythology, the storm god Tarhunt slays the giant serpent Illuyanka, as does the Vedic god Indra the multi-headed serpent Vritra, which has been causing a drought by trapping the waters in his mountain lair. Several variations of the story are also found in Greek mythology. The original motif appears inherited in the legend of Zeus slaying the hundred-headed Typhon, as related by Hesiod in the Theogony, and possibly in the myth of Heracles slaying the nine-headed Lernaean Hydra and in the legend of Apollo slaying the earth-dragon Python. The story of Heracles's theft of the cattle of Geryon is probably also related. Although he is not usually thought of as a storm deity in the conventional sense, Heracles bears many attributes held by other Indo-European storm deities, including physical strength and a knack for violence and gluttony. The original motif is also reflected in Germanic mythology. The Norse god of thunder Thor slays the giant serpent Jörmungandr, which lived in the waters surrounding the realm of Midgard. In the Völsunga saga, Sigurd slays the dragon Fafnir and, in Beowulf, the eponymous hero slays a different dragon. The depiction of dragons hoarding a treasure (symbolizing the wealth of the community) in Germanic legends may also be a reflex of the original myth of the serpent holding waters. In Zoroastrianism and in Persian mythology, Fereydun (and later Garshasp) slays the serpent Zahhak. In Albanian mythology, the drangue, semi-human divine figures associated with thunders, slay the kulshedra, huge multi-headed fire-spitting serpents associated with water and storms. The Slavic god of storms Perun slays his enemy the dragon-god Veles, as does the bogatyr hero Dobrynya Nikitich to the three-headed dragon Zmey. A similar execution is performed by the Armenian god of thunders Vahagn to the dragon Vishap, by the Romanian knight hero Făt-Frumos to the fire-spitting monster Zmeu, and by the Celtic god of healing Dian Cecht to the serpent Meichi. In Shinto, where Indo-European influences through Vedic religion can be seen in mythology, the storm god Susanoo slays the eight-headed serpent Yamata no Orochi. The Genesis narrative of Judaism and Christianity, as well as the dragon appearing in Revelation 12 can be interpreted as a retelling of the serpent-slaying myth. The Deep or Abyss from or on top of which God is said to make the world is translated from the Biblical Hebrew Tehom (Hebrew: תְּהוֹם). Tehom is a cognate of the Akkadian word tamtu and Ugaritic t-h-m which have similar meaning. As such it was equated with the earlier Babylonian serpent Tiamat. Folklorist Andrew Lang suggests that the serpent-slaying myth morphed into a folktale motif of a frog or toad blocking the flow of waters.
*Trito : Manu and Yemo Hercules Vahagn
*Trito : == Bibliography ==
Saint Venera : Saint Venera (Veneranda, Veneria, Venerina, Parasceve) is venerated as a Christian martyr of the 2nd century. Little is known of this saint. The date of her death is traditionally given as July 26, 143 AD. In the Catalogo Sanctorum, composed by Petrus de Natalibus between 1369 and 1372, he cites in Chapter 61 the name of a virgin martyr named Veneranda. According to de Natalibus, Veneranda was born in Gaul in the 2nd century and martyred in Rome during the time of Emperor Antoninus Pius (138-161 AD).
Saint Venera : A version of her legend states that Venera, as a girl, studied the Gospel with zeal, and left her home in Gaul to become a missionary. She travelled to Grotte, in Sicily, and preached there, and lived in a cave, near the present-day Corso Garibaldi. She became well loved amongst the local populace, and she tended to the sick. It is said that her visits would leave behind a scent of roses. She was kidnapped and taken to Acireale, and was subjected to tortures there, including being boiled in hot oil, from which she emerged even more beautiful than before. Ultimately, she was decapitated. Her body was placed in the catacomb of Santa Domitilla. According to one version of her legend, her parents were two noble Christians named Agatho (Agatone) and Hippolyte (Ippolita). When their daughter was born, the mother wanted to call her Venera, but the father, not wanting to create associations with the goddess Venus, changed his daughter's name to Veneranda, a rough Latin translation of the Greek name Paraskevi ("Friday," literally "Preparation"). Venera or Veneranda studied the Scriptures and lives of the martyrs as a child, and when her parents died, she dedicated herself to helping the poor and the sick. She distributed her wealth across Sicily. She preached on the Italian mainland as well, such as at Calabria and Campania. She was on her way to Rome when she was arrested by the Roman prefect Antonius, who attempted to force her to renounce her faith with temptations and an offer of marriage, and then by torture. Antonius had her wear a helmet of red-hot iron, had her nailed on a cross, and placed on her chest a large block of sandstone. However, Venera survived all of these tortures and converted the men who were assigned to torture her. The prefect had her placed in a hot cauldron of oil and sulfur for seven days, but Venera was unharmed. The prefect, after seeing that Venera was unharmed, asked the saint if it was magic that was keeping her unharmed. When Venera asked the prefect to approach the cauldron to determine this, he refused. Venera then scooped up some of the burning sulfur and oil in her hand, and threw it in the prefect's face, blinding him. Subsequently, Antonius freed her and converted to Christianity. Venera then converted many across Magna Graecia, and drew the attention of a ruler named Themius or Theotimus (Temio, Teotimo), who also subjects Venera to tortures, including the ones that Saint Agatha is said to have suffered –the slicing off of a breast. Venera also vanquished a dragon. Themius was also subsequently converted. Venera then traveled to Gaul, and was ultimately decapitated after once again enduring tortures under the prefect Asclepius. Before dying, Venera demolished a temple dedicated to Apollo by reciting a prayer. Her body was left exposed to the elements but remained miraculously intact.
Saint Venera : After her martyrdom in Gaul, Christians are said to have transported her body to Ascoli Piceno, where it was venerated until the 4th century, and then taken by a priest named Anthimus (Antimo) to Rome on November 14. At the end of the Middle Ages, the relics were reclaimed by Acireale, but relics associated with Venera were distributed across Sicily and Italy. At the beginning of the 17th century, Venera's cult flourished, when the relics of the saint were transferred from the Church of Jesus and Mary to the Cathedral of Acireale. In 1668, the Sacred Congregation of Rites officially approved her cult. Records from the basilica of Santa Maria a Pugliano in Ercolano state that Pope Alexander VII donated relics associated with Veneranda and a Saint Maximus in the 17th century to the Procurator General of the Carmelites in Rome. These were then given to Father Simone dello Spirito Santo, of the Carmelite convent of Torre del Greco, near Ercolano, establishing Veneranda's popularity and the diffusion of her cult in the area of Ercolano. The city of Ercolano has two churches dedicated to Veneranda, and a painting dedicated to her in the city shows her name in Greek as Aghia Paraskebe (Saint Paraskevi), which attests to an identification of Veneranda with the martyr Paraskevi of Rome, celebrated on July 26. Venera or Veneranda is the patroness of the Maltese town of Santa Venera. The saint's connection to this town is in doubt. As one source states: "Santa Venera is a very old place, much older than its name, unless they are right who declare that no such Christian saint ever existed as Venera, and that the name is simply a variant of venere, and nothing more nor less than the Italian form of the name of the goddess of love. These people maintain that the hill-town of Aphrodisia stood on this site, and the church of Santa Venera was a temple of Aphrodite seven hundred years before Christianity had any martyrs." Santa Veneranda is the patron Saint of the Arbëresh Town of Carfizzi in Calabria, Italy. Venera is the patron saint of Avola. == References ==
Heinrich von Winkelried : Heinrich von Winkelried (d. after 1303), known as Schrutan or Strut "the giant", was a medieval knight in what is now Central Switzerland. As Strut von Winkelried he became the subject of a legend which makes him a dragonslayer. The legendary Strut is placed a generation before the historical character, with a flouruit in the 1240s, and his death due to poisoning by dragon-blood recorded for 1250.
Heinrich von Winkelried : Heinrich von Winkelried, genannt Schrutan is recorded in a document dated 22 April 1275. After this date and until 1303, his name figures repeatedly as that of a witness on official documents. Nothing beyond this is known about his life. The Winkelried family is well attested in 13th and 14th century, the first known member being the knight Rudolf von Winkelried, attested 1248 as a follower of Frederick II. Heinrich therefore may have been a son of Rudolf's. The home castle of the Winkelried may have been at Ennetmoos near Stans. The modern municipality of Ennetmoos has chosen dragon for its coat of arms due to the legend of Schrutan. The nickname Schrutan (also Strutan, Struthan, Struth, etc.) is derived from German legend, where it is given to a giant, in particular one of the guardians of the Rosengarten in Heldenbuch literature, but it also occurs as the name of a knight at Etzel's court in the Nibelungenlied (v. 1880). Why the historical knight was given this nickname is not known, but it was not uncommon at the time for members of the knightly classes of the Holy Roman Empire to adopt pseudonyms taken from heroic fiction. Heinrich's sons would have been Rudolf and Walther von Winkelried, both d. c. 1325. Hermann von Liebenau further assumes that one Heinrich genannt Schrutan who was buried with his wife Mechthild in Colmar, Alsace must be identical with the knight, who therefore would have left Switzerland at some point after 1303, but Oechsli (1898) does not accept the identity and ascribes the equality in name to coincidence.
Heinrich von Winkelried : The legend is first mentioned by Etterlin (1507), without the given name Strut and without a fixed year (but placed "before the time of king Rudolf). It is expanded into greater detail in the Chronicon Helveticum by Aegidius Tschudi (d. 1570), compiled in the 16th century and first printed in 1734. Tschudi now fixes the year of the event as 1250 and specifies the identity of the hero as one Struth von Winkelriedt (which name he emphasizes is recorded in the annals of Stans), who had been knighted by emperor Frederick at the battle of Favenz (1239). The legend was later included by the Brothers Grimm in their collection of German legends (Deutsche Sagen 1865, no. 218). According to the story as reported by Tschudi, a dragon lived in a cave near Stans (the Drachenloch near the top of Mueterschwandenberg), destroying cattle and causing much damage to the people of Wilen, to the point where the village had to be abandoned and came to be known as Ödwilen (deserted Wilen). The people of Unterwalden made several expeditions trying to kill the dragon with crossbows, but each time the dragon saw he was at a disadvantage, he quickly retired into his cave or ran up a steep slope like a lizard, where he was unreachable. At this point, Winkelried, who had been banished from Unterwalden for manslaughter, asked whether he would be allowed back into the land if he would kill the dragon. This was accepted, and Struth attacked the dragon single-handedly, armed with a spear, to the point of which he had attached sharp barbs. The dragon seeing that the attacker was alone came from his hiding-place and attacked with open jaws, and Winkelried was able to transfix the monster with his spear, hacking at it with his sword until it died. Glad for his victory, Winkelried lifted his sword over his head, thanking God, and the dragon's blood dripped from his sword blade on his body, poisoning him so that he died a few days later. Toponymy referring to a dragon is found in Ennetmoos, where the historical Winkelried family originated. A Drachenried (dragon's fen) and Drachenloch (dragon's cave) are to the west of the village, and a Drachenkapelle (dragon chapel), also known as Winkelriedkapelle dedicated to Struth is south of the village, next to Wychried, the probable site of the original Winkelried estate. The story is probably a recontextualisation of a much older dragon myth, put into a new historical context in late medieval folklore. The "dragon" toponymy in this place has been associated with the older dragon narrative in the Nibelung cycle in 19th-century scholarship.
Heinrich von Winkelried : Hermann von Liebenau: Die Winkelriede von Stans bis auf Arnold Winkelried den Helden von Sempach. Nebst Beilagen (13 gedruckten Urkunden), Zürich 1856
Apep : Apep (Ancient Egyptian: ꜥꜣpp), also known as Aphoph (, Coptic: Ⲁⲫⲱⲫ, romanized: Aphōph) or Apophis (; Ancient Greek: Ἄποφις, romanized: Ápophis), is the ancient Egyptian deity who embodied darkness and disorder, and was thus the opponent of light and Maat (order/truth). Ra was the bringer of light and hence the biggest opposer of Apep.
Apep : Because Re was the solar deity, bringer of light, and thus the upholder of Maat, Apep was viewed as the greatest enemy of Re, and thus was given the title Enemy of Re, and also "the Lord of Chaos". "The Lord of Chaos" was seen as a giant snake or serpent leading to such titles as Serpent from the Nile and Evil Dragon. Some elaborations said that he stretched 16 yards in length and had a head made of flint. Presented on a Naqada I (c. 4000–3550 BCE) C-ware bowl (now in Cairo) a snake was painted on the inside rim combined with other desert and aquatic animals as an enemy of a deity, seemingly a solar deity, who is invisibly hunting in a big rowing vessel. The snake on the inside rim is believed to be Apep. The few descriptions of Apep's origin in myth usually demonstrate that it was born after Re, usually from his umbilical cord. Geraldine Pinch claims that a much later creation myth explained that, "Apophis sprang from the saliva of the goddess Neith when she was still in the primeval waters. Her spit became a snake 120 yards long." But Apep was commonly believed to have existed from the beginning of time in the waters of Nu of primeval chaos.
Apep : Tales of Apep's battles against Re were elaborated during the New Kingdom. Storytellers said that every day Apep must lie below the horizon and not persist in the mortal kingdom. This appropriately made him a part of the underworld. In some stories, Apep waited for Re in a western mountain called Manu, where the sun set, and in others, Apep lurked just before dawn, in the Tenth region of the Night. The wide range of Apep's possible locations gained him the title World-Encircler. It was thought that his terrifying roar would cause the underworld to rumble. Myths sometimes say that Apep was trapped there, because he had been the previous chief god overthrown by Re, or because he was evil and had been imprisoned. The Coffin Texts imply that Apep used a magical gaze to overwhelm Re and his entourage. Re was assisted by a number of defenders who travelled with him, including Set and possibly the Eye of Re. Apep's movements were thought to cause earthquakes, and his battles with Set may have been meant to explain the origin of thunderstorms. In one account, Re himself defeats Apep in the form of a cat.
Apep : Re's victory each night was thought to be ensured by the prayers of the Egyptian priests and worshippers at temples. The Egyptians practiced a number of rituals and superstitions that were thought to ward off Apep, and aid Re in continuing his journey across the sky. In an annual rite called the Ritual of Overthrowing Apophis, priests would build an effigy (sculpture or model of a person or a deity) of Apep that was thought to contain all of the evil and darkness in Egypt, and burn it to protect everyone from Apep's evil for another year. The Egyptian priests had a detailed guide to fighting Apep, referred to as The Books of Overthrowing Apep (or the Book of Apophis, in Greek). The chapters described a gradual process of dishonoring, dismemberment, and disposal, which include: Spitting Upon Apep Defiling Apep with the Left Foot Taking a Lance to Smite Apep Fettering Apep Taking a Knife to Smite Apep Putting Fire Upon Apep In addition to stories about Re's victories, this guide had instructions for making wax models, or small drawings, of the serpent, which would be spat on, mutilated and burnt, whilst reciting spells that would aid Re in killing Apep. Fearing that even the image of Apep could give power to the demon, any rendering would always include another deity to subdue the monster. As Apep was thought to live in the underworld, he was sometimes thought of as an Eater of Souls. Thus the dead also needed protection, so they were sometimes buried with spells that could destroy Apep. The Book of the Dead does not frequently describe occasions when Re defeated the chaos snake explicitly called Apep. Only Book of the Dead Spells 7 and 39 can be explained as such.
Apep : 99942 Apophis, near Earth asteroid Apep (star system), triple star system that is a gamma-ray burst progenitor in the Milky Way Ethnoherpetology Referenced in John Langan's The Fisherman (novel) as Apophis, the world-girdling serpent harnessed as a source of magical potency Nikko Jenkins, American criminal who motivated his series of murders by claiming that he is a worshipper of Apep Jörmungandr Mehen Ouroboros Python (mythology) Unut Vritra Wadjet Leviathan Satan Ancient serpent
Apep : Apep, Water Snake-Demon of Chaos, Enemy of Ra... Ancient Egypt: The Mythology - Apep
Ayida-Weddo : Ayida-Weddo, also known as Ayida, Agida, Ayida-Wedo, Aido Quedo, Aido Wedo, Aida Wedo, and Aido Hwedo, is a powerful loa spirit in Vodou, revered in regions across Africa and the Caribbean, namely in Benin, Suriname and Haiti. Known as the "Rainbow Serpent", Ayida-Weddo is the loa of fertility, rainbows, wind, water, fire, wealth, thunder, and snakes. Alongside Damballa, Ayida-Weddo is regarded among the most ancient and significant loa. Considered in many sources as the female half of Damballa's twin spirit, the names Da Ayida Hwedo, Dan Ayida Hwedo, and Dan Aida Wedo have also been used to refer to her. Thought to have existed before the Earth, Ayida-Weddo assisted the creator goddess Mawu-Lisa in the formation of the world, and is responsible for holding together the Earth and heavens. Ayida-Weddo bestows love and well-being upon her followers, teaching fluidity and the connection between body and spirit.
Ayida-Weddo : Ayida-Weddo is a member of the Rada family of loa, associated with protection, benevolence, and love. In many stories, she is married to Damballa. As his inseparable companion, she shares him with his concubine, Erzulie Freda. In others, she is one with Damballa: a single entity sharing a dual spirit. As his female aspect, together they represent dynamism, life, creation, and the intertwined harmony of male and female, earth and heaven, and body and spirit.
Ayida-Weddo : Ayida-Weddo is symbolized by the rainbow, snake, thunderbolt, and white paquet congo. When represented in art, she is often depicted as a serpent consuming its own tail. In veves, she is invariably portrayed alongside Damballa as one of two dancing or intertwined serpents. White, as the purest color, represents her in ceremony. When Ayida-Weddo appears in ritual, she dons white cloth and a jeweled headdress, and embodies the serpent by slithering upon the ground. Matching her sacred color, appropriate offerings to her include white chickens, white eggs, rice, milk, as well as other white offerings decorated in rainbow colors. Her favorite plant is cotton.
Ayida-Weddo : The Fon people of Benin believe the rainbow serpent Ayida-Weddo was a servant of Mawu-Lisa and existed before the Earth was made. As Mawu-Lisa created the world, the serpent carried the goddess in its mouth as she shaped the Earth with her creations. As they went across the land, the rainbow serpent's body left behind the canyons, rivers, valleys, and mountains. The rainbow serpent had a twin personality whose red half was male, and whose blue half was female. Together, they held up the Earth and the heavens. The female half was said to arc thunderbolts and rainbows across the sky with its body, and lived among the clouds, trees, springs, and rivers. Asked by Mawu-Lisa to help support the weight of her creations on the Earth, the rainbow serpent's male half coiled its body underneath the world to prevent its collapse. As it writhes from exertion under the world's weight, the serpent causes earthquakes in the land. When it runs out of the iron that sates its hunger, it is said the serpent will devour its tail, finally causing the heavy Earth to sink into the abyss. In some stories, Ayida-Weddo descends from the heavens with Adanhu and Yewa, the first humans created by Mawu. "In the beginning there was a vast serpent, whose body formed seven thousand coils beneath the earth, protecting it from descent into the abysmal sea. Then the titanic snake began to move and heave its massive form from the earth to envelop the sky. It scattered stars in the firmament and wound its taught flesh down the mountains to create riverbeds. It shot thunderbolts to the earth to create the sacred thunderstones. From its deepest core it released the sacred waters to fill the earth with life. As the first rains fell, a rainbow encompassed the sky and Danbala took her, Ayida Wedo, as his wife. The spiritual nectar that they created reproduces through all men and women as milk and semen. The serpent and the rainbow taught humankind the link between blood and life, between menstruation and birth, and the ultimate Vodou sacrament of blood sacrifice." In Haiti, Ayida-Weddo is said to have crossed the ocean with her husband Damballa to take the ancient knowledge and traditions of Vodou from Africa to the Caribbean. As Damballa slithered under the ocean, Ayida-Weddo flew across the sky in the form of the rainbow until the two loa reunited in Haiti, bringing Vodou to the Americas. Ayida-Weddo is syncretized in Haitian Vodou with the Catholic figure of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception for her association with serpents and rainbow-colored cherubs. Ayida-Weddo's days of service lie on Monday and Tuesday, and she is honored on December 8 with festivals for her blessings. Through prayer and ritual, she grants peace, love, prosperity, joy, and understanding to her devotees. In West African mythology, Ayida-Weddo is often equated to the Yoruba rainbow serpent Oshumare, with whom she shares many aspects.
Ayida-Weddo : Rainbow Serpent
Azure Dragon : The Azure Dragon (Chinese: 青龍 Qīnglóng), also known as Qinglong in Chinese, is one of the Dragon Gods who represent the mount or chthonic forces of the Five Regions' Highest Deities (五方上帝 Wǔfāng Shàngdì). It is also one of the Four Symbols of the Chinese constellations, which are the astral representations of the Wufang Shangdi. The Azure Dragon represents the east and the spring season. It is also sometimes referred to as the Blue-green Dragon, Green Dragon, or the Blue Dragon (蒼龍 Cānglóng). The Dragon is frequently referred to in the media, feng shui, other cultures, and in various venues as the Green Dragon and the Avalon Dragon. His cardinal direction's epithet is "Bluegreen Dragon of the East" (東方青龍 Dōngfāng Qīnglóng or 東方蒼龍 Dōngfāng Cānglóng). This dragon is also known as Seiryū in Japanese, Cheongryong in Korean and Thanh Long in Vietnamese.
Azure Dragon : As with the other three Symbols, there are seven astrological "Mansions" (positions of the Moon) within the Azure Dragon. The names and determinative stars are:
Azure Dragon : In the Romance of the Tales of the Tang, the White Tiger's star is reincarnated as fictionalized General Luo Cheng, who serves Li Shimin. The Azure Dragon's Star is reincarnated as General Shan Xiongxin, who serves Wang Shichong. The two generals are sworn brothers of Qin Shubao, Cheng Zhijie and Yuchi Gong. After death, their souls are said to possess heroes of the Tang dynasty and Goguryeo, such as Xue Rengui and Yeon Gaesomun. The Azure Dragon appears as a door god at Taoist temples. He was represented on the tomb of Wang Hui (stone coffin, east side) at Xikang in Lushan. A rubbing of this was collected by David Crockett Graham and is in the Field Museum of Natural History. The dragon featured on the Chinese national flag in 1862–1912, and on the Twelve Symbols national emblem from 1913 to 1928.
Azure Dragon : Chinese dragon
Azure Dragon : Media related to Azure Dragon at Wikimedia Commons
Coi Coi-Vilu : Coi Coi-Vilu or Caicai-Vilu/Cai Cai Vilu (from Mapudungun: Kaykayfilu; Kaykay, a name, and filu, "snake") is the Mapuche god of water (or goddess, in some versions found in Chiloé) and, according to Mapuche myths (later also found in Chiloé), supreme ruler of the sea and of all sea-dwellers. This snake was a central figure in the origin of the Chiloean Archipelago. In Mapuche mythology, Coi Coi-Vilu is son of Peripillan (a Pillan). Some legends state that it is a parent of the mythical Trauco.
Coi Coi-Vilu : In the final shot in the trailer of Nahuel and the Magic Book by Latido Films, the Caicai raise to the ocean as Nahuel hugged an unconscious friend Fresia.
Coi Coi-Vilu : Bakunawa Chilota mythology Horned Serpent Mapuche mythology Ten Ten-Vilu Kaikaifilu, an extinct genus of mosasaurs named after the deity Kaikaifilusaurus, an extinct genus of rhynchocephalians named after the deity
Coi Coi-Vilu : Alberto Trivero (1999), Trentrenfilú, (in Spanish). Proyecto de Documentación Ñuke Mapu. Martinez Vilches, Oscar, Chiloe Misterioso (in Spanish). Pub. Ediciones de la Voz de Chiloe (circa 1998)
Dragon King : The Dragon King, also known as the Dragon God, is a Chinese water and weather god. He is regarded as the dispenser of rain, commanding over all bodies of water. He is the collective personification of the ancient concept of the lóng in Chinese culture. There are also the cosmological "Dragon Kings of the Four Seas" (四海龍王; Sihai Longwang). Besides being a water deity, the Dragon God frequently also serves as a territorial tutelary deity, similarly to Tudigong "Lord of the Earth" and Houtu "Queen of the Earth".
Dragon King : The Dragon King has been regarded as holding dominion over all bodies of water, and the dispenser of rain, in rituals practiced into the modern era in China. One of his epithets is Dragon King of Wells and Springs.
Dragon King : Historically there arose a cult of the Five Dragon Kings. The name Wufang longwang (五方龍王, "Dragon Kings of the Five Regions/Directions") is registered in Daoist scripture from the Tang dynasty, found in the Dunhuang caves. Veneration of chthonic dragon god(s) of the five directions still persists today in southern areas, such as Canton and Fujian. It has also been conflated with the cult of Lord Earth, Tugong (Tudigong), and inscriptions on tablets invoke the Wufang wutu longshen (五方五土龍神, "Dragon Spirits of the Five Directions and Five Soils") in rituals current in Southeast Asia (Vietnam).
Dragon King : Each one of the four Dragon Kings of the Four Seas (四海龍王 Sìhǎi Lóngwáng) is associated with a body of water corresponding to one of the four cardinal directions and natural boundaries of China: the East Sea (corresponding to the East China Sea), the South Sea (corresponding to the South China Sea), the West Sea (Qinghai Lake), and the North Sea (Lake Baikal). They appear in the classical novels like The Investiture of the Gods and Journey to the West, where each of them has a proper name, and they share the surname Ao (敖, meaning "playing" or "proud").
Dragon King : As already mentioned, Esoteric Buddhists in Japan who initially learned their trade from Tang dynasty China engaged in rainmaking ritual prayers invoking dragon kings under a system known as shōugyōhō or shōugyō [no] hō, established in the Shingon sect founded by the priest Kūkai, who learned Buddhism in Tang China. It was first performed by Kūkai in the year 824 at Shinsen'en, according to legend, but the first occasion probably took place historically in the year 875, then a second time in 891. The rain ritual came to be performed regularly. The shōugyōhō ritual used two mandalas that featured dragon kings. The Great Mandala that was hung up was of a design that centered around Sakyamuni Buddha, surrounded by the Eight Great Dragon Kings, the ten thousand dragon kings, Bodhisattvas (based on the Dayunlun qingyu jing 大雲輪請雨經, "Scripture of [Summoning] Great Clouds and Petitioning for Rain"). The other one was a "spread-out mandala”(shiki mandara 敷曼荼羅) laid flat out on its back, and depicted five dragon kings, which were one-, three-, five-, seven-, and nine-headed (based on the Collected Dhāraṇī Sūtras). Also, there was the "Five Dragons Festival/ritual" (Goryūsai. 五龍祭) that was performed by onmyōji or yin-yang masters. The oldest mention of this in literature is from Fusō Ryakuki, the entry of Engi 2/902AD, 17th day of the 6th moon. Sometimes, the performance of the rain ritual by Esoteric Buddhists (shōugyōhō) would be followed in succession by the Five Dragons Ritual from the Yin-Yang Bureau. The Five Dragon rites performed by the onmyōji or yin yang masters had their heyday around the 10–11th centuries. There are mokkan, or inscribed wooden tablets, used in these rites that have been unearthed (e.g., from an 8–10th century site and a 9th-century site). In Japan, there also developed a legend that the primordial being Banko (Pangu of Chinese myth) sired the Five Dragon Kings, who were invoked in the ritual texts or saimon read in Shinto or Onmyōdō rites, but the five beings later began to be seen less as monsters and more as wise princes.
Dragon King : Worship of the Dragon God is celebrated throughout China with sacrifices and processions during the fifth and sixth moons, and especially on the date of his birthday the thirteenth day of the sixth moon. A folk religious movement of associations of good-doing in modern Hebei is primarily devoted to a generic Dragon God whose icon is a tablet with his name inscribed on it, utilized in a ritual known as the "movement of the Dragon Tablet". The Dragon God is traditionally venerated with dragon boat racing. In coastal regions of China, Korea, Vietnam, traditional legends and worshipping of whales (whale gods) have been referred to Dragon Kings after the arrival of Buddhism.
Dragon King : Some Buddhist traditions describe a figure named Duo-luo-shi-qi or Talasikhin as a Dragon King who lives in a palace located in a pond near the legendary kingdom of Ketumati. It is said that during midnight he used to drizzle in this pond to cleanse himself of dust.
Dragon King : Longwang in art
Dragon King : Chinese dragon Dragon king theory Lạc Long Quân Nagaraja Prince Nezha's Triumph Against Dragon King Shenlong (神龍) Tianlong (天龍) Typhoon Longwang Watatsumi Ryūjin Wǔfāng Shàngdì - "Highest Deities of the Five Regions" Yinglong
Dragon King : Media related to Dragon King at Wikimedia Commons
Feathered Serpent : The Feathered Serpent is a prominent supernatural entity or deity, found in many Mesoamerican religions. It is still called Quetzalcoatl among the Aztecs, Kukulkan among the Yucatec Maya, and Q'uq'umatz and Tohil among the K'iche' Maya. The double symbolism used by the Feathered Serpent is considered allegoric to the dual nature of the deity, where being feathered represents its divine nature or ability to fly to reach the skies and being a serpent represents its human nature or ability to creep on the ground among other animals of the Earth, a dualism very common in Mesoamerican deities.
Feathered Serpent : The earliest representations of feathered serpents appear in the Olmec culture (c. 1400–400 BC). The Olmec culture predates the Maya and the Aztec. This cultural enclave extended from the Gulf of Mexico to Nicaragua. Most surviving representations in Olmec art, such as Monument 19 at La Venta, and a painting in the Juxtlahuaca cave (see below), show the Feathered Serpent as a crested rattlesnake, sometimes with feathers covering the body and legs, and often close to humans. It is believed that Olmec supernatural entities such as the feathered serpent were the forerunners of many later Mesoamerican deities, although experts disagree on the feathered serpent's religious importance to the Olmec. H.B. Nicholson notes that as early as the Middle Formative (Preclassic) in the Olmec tradition, images of serpents with avian characteristics were often represented in several types of artifacts and monuments. This composite creature, who has been denominated the “Avian Serpent” and “Olmec God VII,” appears to constitute an earlier form of the later full-fledged Feathered Serpent, the rattlesnake covered with feathers, probably with at least some of the same celestial and fertility connotations. The pantheon of the people of Teotihuacan (200 BC – 700 AD) also featured a feathered serpent, shown most prominently on the Temple of the Feathered Serpent (dated 150–200 AD). The pyramid was built southeast of the intersection of the avenue of the dead and the east-end avenue. Several feathered serpent representations appear on the building, many of them including full-body profiles and feathered serpent heads. The sculptures utilize practices such as relief carving to create complex ornate compositions. Head carvings of the Feathered Serpent have been frequently found around the Pyramid of the Feathered Serpent. While the feathered serpent has been a common theme in different Mesoamerican works, it is frequently and most commonly reflected in the architecture of Mesoamerican culture. Some common techniques used to incorporate imagery of the Feathered Serpent into this architecture is relief carving, which involves “a sculpture with figures that protrude from a background while still being attached to it” and normally combined with tenoned heads, which are large pieces of stone carved but have a peg of sorts to insert them into the wall area, adding more depth and details to the architecture. Other Mesoamerican structures, such as the ones in Tula, the capital of the later Toltecs (950–1150 AD), also featured profiles of feathered serpents. The Aztec feathered serpent deity known as Quetzalcoatl is known from several Aztec codices, such as the Florentine codex, as well as from the records of the Spanish conquistadors. Quetzalcoatl was known as the deity of wind and rain, bringer of knowledge, the inventor of books, and associated with the planet Venus. The corresponding Mayan god Kukulkan was rare in the Classic era Maya civilization. However, in the Popol Vuh, the K'iche' feathered serpent god Tepeu Q'uq'umatz is the creator of the cosmos. Along with the feathered serpent deity, several other serpent gods existed in the pantheon of Mesoamerican gods with similar traits, all of which had an important role in the cultural development of Mesoamerican cultures. The evidence of the importance of these deities to Mesoamerican culture lies in the architecture left from these civilizations and the rituals surrounding them.
Feathered Serpent : Awanyu Horned Serpent Serpent (symbolism) Xiuhcoatl Amaru (mythology) Ketu
Feathered Serpent : Bardawil, Lawrence W. “The Principal Bird Deity in Maya Art—An Iconographic Study of Form and Meaning.” In The Art, Iconography and Dynastic History of Palenque, part 3: Proceedings of the Segunda Mesa Redonda de Palenque, December 14–21, 1974—Palenque, edited by Merle Green Robertson, pp. 195–209. Pebble Beach, Calif., 1976. Well-illustrated survey and discussion of the Classic Maya icon that appears to have been conceptually related to the Feathered Serpent. Bernal, I; Coe, M; et al. (1973). The Iconography of Middle American sculpture. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art. (See index.): CS1 maint: postscript (link) Berrin, Kathleen ed., Feathered Serpent and Flowering Trees: Reconstructing the Murals of Teotihuacan. San Francisco, 1988. Articles describing and interpreting a large corpus of murals donated in 1976 to the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, San Francisco, which include some striking images of the Feathered Serpent. Joralemon, Peter David. A Study of Olmec Iconography. Dumbarton Oaks, Trustees for Harvard University, Studies in Pre-Columbian Art and Archaeology, 7. Washington, D.C., 1971. Survey and analysis of Olmec iconography, in which the author identifies what he calls “God VII” as the Feathered Serpent. López Austin, Alfredo, Leonardo López Luján, and Saburo Sugiyama. “The Temple of Quetzalcoatl at Teotihuacan: Its Possible Significance.” Ancient Mesoamerica 2.1 (1991), 93–106. Following an analysis of the iconography of the structure, the conclusion is that it was dedicated to “the myth of the origin of time and calendric succession,” with the sculptures on its façade representing “the Feathered Serpent at the moment of creation.” Miller, Arthur. The Moral Painting of Teotihuacan. Washington, D.C., 1973. Comprehensive survey and discussion of Teotihuacan murals at time of publication, including some that feature the Feathered Serpent. Nicholson, H. B. “The ‘Feathered Serpents’ of Copan.” In The Periphery of the Southeastern Classic Maya Realm, edited by Gary W. Pahl, pp. 171–188. UCLA Latin American Center Publications, 61. Los Angeles, 1987. Discussion of four Classic Copán monuments with images that had been identified by various students as Feathered Serpents; the conclusion, after a review of Mesoamerican ophidian iconography, was that as versions of the “Bearded Dragon,” they represent an essentially distinct entity. Nicholson, H. B. “The Iconography of the Feathered Serpent in Late Postclassic Central Mexico.” In Mesoamerica's Classic Heritage: From Teotihuacan to the Aztecs, edited by Davíd Carrasco, Lindsay Jones, and Scott Sessions, pp. 145–164. Boulder, Colo., 2000. Illustrated survey and discussion of Feathered Serpent iconography in this period and area, emphasizing its richness and diversity. Ringle, William M., Tomás Gallareta Negrón, and George J. Bey. “The Return of Quetzalcoatl: Evidence for the Spread of a World Religion during the Epiclassic Period.” Ancient Mesoamerica 9.2 (1998), 183–232. After a broad survey of the archaeological evidence, the authors advance the hypothesis that the militaristic spread of an organized Quetzalcoatl millenarian religion best explains the wide distribution of Feathered Serpent symbolism during the Mesoamerican Epiclassic. Sugiyama, Saburo. “Teotihuacan as an Origin for Postclassic Feathered Serpent Symbolism.” In Mesoamerica's Classic Heritage: From Teotihuacan to the Aztecs, edited by Davíd Carrasco, Lindsay Jones, and Scott Sessions, pp. 117–143. Boulder, Colo., 2000. Surveys the Feather Serpent imagery at Teotihuacan and develops the identification of the head alternating with the Feathered Serpent head on the tableros of the Pyramid of the Feathered Serpent as the headdress of the “Primordial Crocodile.” Taube, Karl A. “The Temple of Quetzalcoatl and the Cult of Sacred War at Teotihuacan.” Res 21 (1992), 54–87. Identifies the head that alternates with the Feathered Serpent on the tableros of the Pyramid of the Feathered Serpent as a headdress imaging the “War Serpent,” a solar fire serpent ancestral to the Postclassic Xiuhcoatl, that was also widely adopted by Classic Maya rulers, with the structure itself, featuring Feathered Serpent heads emerging from mirrors, apparently an ancestral form of the Tezcacoac, “Place of the Mirror Snake,” an Aztec temple connected with war. Taube, Karl A. “The Rainmakers: The Olmec and Their Contribution to Mesoamerican Belief and Ritual.” In The Olmec World: Ritual and Rulership, pp. 83–103. Princeton, N.J., 1998. Discussion with numerous illustrations of the “Avian Serpent” in Olmec iconography—the apparent prototype of the rattlesnake covered with feathers that constituted the later Mesoamerican Feathered Serpent.
Feathered Serpent : Media related to Plumed serpent at Wikimedia Commons
Kanglā shā : In Meitei mythology and Sanamahism, the indigenous religion of Manipur, Kanglā shā (Meitei: ꯀꯡꯂꯥ ꯁꯥ, lit. 'beast of the Kangla') is a sacred guardian beast with a lion's body and a two-horned dragon's head, with two horns. It is a royal symbol of the Meitei royalties (Ningthouja dynasty). The most remarkable statues dedicated to "Kangla Sa" stand inside the Kangla. In Meitei traditional race competitions, winners of the race are declared only after symbolically touching the statue of the dragon "Kangla Sha".
Kanglā shā : In the year 1804, Meitei king Chourjit Singh (Meitei: ꯅꯤꯡꯊꯧ ꯆꯧꯔꯖꯤꯠ ꯁꯤꯡꯍ)(1803-1813 AD) constructed two huge structures of the "Kangla Sha" dragon lions in front of the Kangla Uttra Shanglen (or simply called the "Uttra") inside the present day Kangla Fort. These two statues were demolished by the Burmese forces during the Chahi Taret Khuntakpa (Meitei for 'Seven Years Devastation') (1819-1826). During the months of June and July in the year 1844, Meitei king Raja Nara Singh (Meitei: ꯅꯤꯡꯊꯧ ꯅꯔꯁꯤꯡꯍ) reconstructed the two statues of the Kangla Sha dragons once again. During the British conquest of the Anglo Manipur War of 1891, the British forces led by Captain Allen demolished the two statues of the Kangla Sha dragons by blasting them by artillery fire into pieces on 20 July 1891. Later, in the year 2006, the statues of the "Kangla Sa" ("Kangla Sha") were reconstructed by the Government of Manipur. Each statue is 19.30 feet in height, 15.30 feet in length and 6 feet in breadth. The weight of each statue is 36.50 metric tonne. The statues of the Kangla-Sha were sculpted based on the photographs published in the books including "The Lost Kingdom" and "The Meitheis" written by Thomas Callan Hodson. 4 kinds of bricks, found in the ruins of the Old Palace at Canchipur, were used during the construction of the sculptures. It took the craftsmen and sculptors 2 years to complete the construction works. Before the construction of the real sculptures, to take the comments, feedbacks, opinions and suggestions of the people, Sculptor B Mohendro Sharma presented the prototypes of the Kangla-Sha, made of mud, displayed on the public.
Kanglā shā : On 9 December 2008, after getting permission from the Kangla Fort Board for shooting a film on the history of Kangla, associated with the demolition of the Kangla Sha statues in front of Kangla Uttra Shanglen, the "Manipur Film Development Corporation" (MFDC) Ltd. demolished the prototypes of Kangla Sha with the powerful crackers on 9 December, between 2 PM and 4 PM inside the Kangla.
Kanglā shā : On 18 June 2021, the "Kaba Khanba" (Meitei: ꯀꯕꯥ ꯈꯟꯕ, romanized: ka-bā khan-ba, lit. 'rods between jaws') of the Kangla Sha statues were removed by the Government of Manipur, along with the performances of religious rites and rituals by Amaibas (Meitei for 'priests') and Amaibis (Meitei for 'priestesses'), due to the perception by the authorities concerned that the rods gave pains to Kangla Sha, resulting in the downfall and unhappiness of the people of Manipur. It was done after a unanimous joint decision by the Kangla Board, the Sanamahi Temple Board, the Uttra Shanglen, women's organisations of the Ima Keithel (Meitei for 'Ima Market') and the general public of Manipur. The action of the removal of rods taken up by the Government of Manipur led by Nongthombam Biren Singh, the Chief Minister of Manipur, and Leishemba Sanajaoba, the Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament, was given positive reactions by the "Lamlai Mapari Thougal Lup" and the "All India Kangla Pakhangba Temple Development Society". However, this event of the removal of rods drew criticism by RK Nimai, a retired IAS officer, as “The removal of kabak of the two kanglashas at Kangla which was shown in the local TV channels indicates the utter lack of knowledge of the so-called experts even in Meitei tradition.” He wrote an article about its criticism in the Imphal Free Press. As a result, many social associations and organisations burnt newspaper copies of the Imphal Free Press. In a neutral response to the criticism and its reactions, Ethno Heritage Council (HERICOUN) stated: “The organisation (Imphal Free Press) is not an expert body on the issue at hand and as such it is not a party in the argument between the supporters and opposers of removing the support rods from the mouths of the twin Kanglasha.” In reaction to the criticism, there was a strong objection by the "International Sanamahism Students' Association" (ISSA).
Kanglā shā : On 17 July 2021, two statues dedicated to the "Kangla Sha", made of bricks, were installed by the 109 BN CRPF under the care of the IGP of Manipur and Nagaland sectors at the main entrance gate to the 109 BN Mongsangei, Imphal West district, Manipur. It was done to pay respect for the Meitei cultural traditions of Manipur. The two bifurcated horns in the heads of each statue, are derived from the Sangai (Meitei for 'brow-antlered deer' Cervus eldi eldi), the state animal of Manipur, unlike the East Asian and Southeast Asian leogryphs.
Kanglā shā : The government of Manipur recognised the illustration of Meitei mythical animal "Kangla Sha" as the state emblem in the year 1980.
Kanglā shā : A music band named "Kanglasha" was organised in Imphal in 2007. Its lead singer is Tukun Chongtham, its lead guitarist is Mantosh Thokchom, its bassist is Sen Thokchom, its keyboard player is Surjit Kshetri and its drum player is Chingkhei Nongthonbam.
Kanglā shā : Pakhangba Poubi Lai Hiyang Hiren Taoroinai Lamassu Fu Dog
Kanglā shā : Samerendra, Chongtham (2007). Hiyang Hiren Kanglasa Amasung Kangla (in Manipuri). Internet Archive. Rajiv Gandhi Center For Culture, Manipur. Lokendra, N. (1 January 1998). The Unquiet Valley: Society, Economy, and Politics of Manipur (1891-1950). Mittal Publications. p. 29. ISBN 978-81-7099-696-5. Chakravarti, Sudeep (11 April 2016). Highway 39: Reportagen aus Indiens aufständischem Nordosten (in German). Unionsverlag. p. 396. ISBN 978-3-293-30882-4. Singh, Sarina (21 April 2016). India (in Italian). EDT srl. p. 1258. ISBN 978-88-592-3227-8.
Kanglā shā : Kangla Sha at Internet Archive Kangla Sha at E-pao.net
Kukulkan : K’uk’ulkan, also spelled Kukulkan (; lit. "Plumed Serpent", "Amazing Serpent"), is the serpent deity of Maya mythology. It is closely related to the deity Qʼuqʼumatz of the Kʼicheʼ people and to Quetzalcoatl of Aztec mythology. Prominent temples to Kukulkan are found at archaeological sites in the Yucatán Peninsula, such as Chichen Itza, Uxmal and Mayapan. The depiction of the Feathered Serpent is present in other cultures of Mesoamerica. Although heavily Mexicanised, Kukulkan has its origins among the Maya of the Classic Period. Little is known of the mythology of this Pre-Columbian era deity.
Kukulkan : In the Yucatec Maya language, the name is spelt Kʼukʼulkan (/kʼuː kʼuːlˈkän/) and in Tzotzil it is Kʼukʼul-chon (/kʼuːˈkʼuːl tʃʰon/). The Yucatec form of the name is formed from the word kuk "feather" with the adjectival suffix -ul, giving kukul "feathered", combined with kan "snake" (Tzotzil chon), giving a literal meaning of "feathered snake". In the Chol-Ch'orti'-Tzeltal family of languages, Kukulcan is Kukulchon. In Ch'orti', Kukulchon is kuk k'ur chon. Kukulkan has its origins among the Maya of the Classic Period, when it was known as Waxaklahun Ubah Kan (/waʃaklaˈχuːn uːˈɓaχ kän/), the War Serpent. It has been identified also as the Postclassic version of the Vision Serpent of Classic Maya art.
Kukulkan : The cult of Kukulkan/Quetzalcoatl was the first Mesoamerican religion to transcend the old Classic Period linguistic and ethnic divisions. This cult facilitated communication and peaceful trade among peoples of many different social and ethnic backgrounds. Although the cult was originally centred on the ancient city of Chichen Itza in the modern Mexican state of Yucatán, it spread as far as the Guatemalan Highlands and northern Belize. In Yucatán, references to the deity Kukulkan are confused by references to a historical individual who bore the name of the god. Because of this, the distinction between the two has become blurred. This individual appears to have been a ruler or priest at Chichen Itza who first appeared around the 10th century. Although Kukulkan was mentioned as a historical person by Maya writers of the 16th century, the earlier 9th-century texts at Chichen Itza never identified him as human and artistic representations depicted him as a Vision Serpent entwined around the figures of nobles. At Chichen Itza, Kukulkan is also depicted presiding over sacrifice scenes.
Kukulkan : Stories are still told about Kukulkan among the modern Yucatec Maya. In one tale, Kukulkan is a boy who was born as a snake. As he grew older it became obvious that he was the plumed serpent and his sister cared for him in a cave. He grew to such a size that his sister was unable to continue feeding him, so he flew out of his cave and into the sea, causing an earthquake. To let his sister know that he is still alive, Kukulkan causes earth tremors every year in July. A modern collection of folklore from Yucatán tells how Kukulkan was a winged serpent that flew to the sun and tried to speak to it but the sun, in its pride, burnt his tongue. The same source relates how Kukulkan always travels ahead of the Yucatec Maya rain god Chaac, helping to predict the rains as his tail moves the winds and sweeps the earth clean. Among the Lacandon Maya of Chiapas, Kukulkan is an evil, monstrous snake that is the pet of the sun god. She destroys much of the world until she tries to herself during the long trip—the trip between the life and death. During the trip, she meets a boy who shares food with her and follows her back to the human world. She returns with him and constructs her own country.
Kukulkan : Chichen Itza, a pre-Columbian Maya city Kukulcania, a genus of crevice weaver spiders named in honor of this god.
Kukulkan : == Further reading ==
Kuraokami : Okami (淤加美神, Okami-no-kami) in the Kojiki, or in the Nihon Shoki: Kuraokami (闇龗) or Okami (龗), is a legendary Japanese dragon and Shinto deity of rain and snow. In Japanese mythology, the sibling progenitors Izanagi and Izanami gave birth to the islands and gods of Japan. After Izanami died from burns during the childbirth of the fire deity Kagu-tsuchi, Izanagi was enraged and killed his son. Kagutsuchi's blood or body, according to differing versions of the legend, created several other deities, including Kuraokami.
Kuraokami : The name Kuraokami combines kura 闇 "dark; darkness; closed" and okami 龗 "dragon tutelary of water". This uncommon kanji (o)kami or rei 龗, borrowed from the Chinese character ling 龗 "rain-dragon; mysterious" (written with the "rain" radical 雨, 3 口 "mouths", and a phonetic of long 龍 "dragon") is a variant Chinese character for Japanese rei < Chinese ling 靈 "rain-prayer; supernatural; spiritual" (with 2 巫 "shamans" instead of a "dragon"). Compare this 33-stroke 龗 logograph with the simpler 24-stroke variant 靇 ("rain" and "dragon" without the "mouths"), read either rei < ling 靇 "rain prayer; supernatural" or ryō < long 靇 "sound of thunder", when used for ryo < long 隆 reduplicated in ryōryō < longlong 隆隆 "rumble; boom". Marinus Willem de Visser (1913:136) cites the 713 CE Bungo Fudoki 豊後風土記 that okami is written 蛇龍 "snake dragon" in a context about legendary Emperor Keikō seeing an okami dragon in a well, and concludes, "This and later ideas about Kura-okami show that this divinity is a dragon or snake." Grafton Elliot Smith provides a Trans-cultural diffusionist perspective. The snake takes a more obtrusive part in the Japanese than in the Chinese dragon and it frequently manifests itself as a god of the sea. The old Japanese sea-gods were often female water-snakes. The cultural influences which reached Japan from the south by way of Indonesia — many centuries before the coming of Buddhism — naturally emphasized the serpent form of the dragon and its connection with the ocean. (1919:101)
Kuraokami : In the Kojiki, he is the father of female deity Hikawa-hime (日河比売, or Hikaha-hime) married Susanoo's grandson, the male deity Fuwanomojikunusunu (布波能母遅久奴須奴神, or Fuhanomojikunusunu) and from their union gave birth to the male deity Fukafuchi-no-Mizuyarehana (深淵之水夜礼花神). Fukafuchi-no-Mizuyarehana is the great-grandfather of the male deity Ōkuninushi (大国主神). Then, the great-grandson of Ōkuninushi, Mikanushi-hiko (甕主日子神) married Hinarashi-hime (比那良志毘売), who is the daughter of Okami, sister of Hikawa-hime. From the union of Mikanushi-hiko and Hinarashi-hime gave birth to the male deity Tahirikishimarumi (多比理岐志麻流美神).
Kuraokami : The ca. 680 CE Kojiki transcribes Kuraokami Kami with man'yōgana as 闇淤加美 "dark o-ka-mi god". In the Kojiki version of this myth, Izanagi killed Kagutsuchi with his giant sword, and the blood subsequently created eight kami "gods; spirits". The final two generated from blood that dripped off the hilt onto Izanagi's fingers were Kuraokami and Kuramitsuha Kami 闇御津羽神 "dark mi-tsu-ha god". Then His Augustness the Male-Who-invites, drawing the ten-grasp sabre that was augustly girded on him, cut off the head of his child the Deity Shining-Elder. Hereupon the names of the Deities that were born from the blood that stuck to the point of the august sword and bespattered the multitudinous rock-masses were: the Deity Rock-Splitter, next the Deity Root-Splitter, next the Rock-Possessing-Male-Deity. The names of the Deities that were next born from the blood that stuck to the upper part of the august sword and again bespattered the multitudinous rock-masses were: the Awfully-Swift-Deity, next the Fire-Swift-Deity, next the Brave-Awful-Possessing-Male-Deity, another name for whom is the Brave-Snapping-Deity, and another name is the Luxuriant-Snapping Deity. The names of the Deities that were next born from the blood that collected on the hilt of the august sword and leaked out between his fingers were: the Deity Kura-okami and next the Deity Kura-mitsuha. All the eight Deities in the above list, from the Deity Rock-Splitter to the Deity Kura-mitsuha, are Deities that were born from the august sword. (tr. Chamberlain 1919:36) Basil Hall Chamberlain notes, "The etymology of both these name is obscure. Kura, the first element of each compound, signifies 'dark'." Another Kojiki section listing ancestors of Ōkuninushi 大国主 "great country master" says Okami Kami's daughter Hikaha Hime 日河比売 "sun river princess" had a daughter Fukabuchi no mizu Yarehana 深淵之水夜礼花 "deep pool water lost flower". The Deity Fuha-no-moji-Ku-nu-su-nu … wedded Princess Hikaha, daughter of the Deity Okami, and begot a child: Water-Spoilt-Blossom-of-Fuka-buchi. This Deity wedded the Deity Ame-no-tsudohe-chi-ne, and begot a child: the Deity Great-Water-Master. This Deity wedded the Deity Grand-Ears daughter of the Deity Funu-dzu-nu, and begot a child: the Deity Heavenly-Brandishing-Prince-Lord. This Deity wedded the Young-Princess-of-the-Small-Country, daughter of the Great-Deity-of-the-Small-Country, and begot a child: the Deity Master-of-the-Great-Land. (tr. Chamberlain 1919:78-9)
Kuraokami : The ca. 720 CE Nihon Shoki writes Kuraokami with kanji as 闇龗 "dark rain-dragon". In the Nihongi version, Izanagi killed Kagutsuchi by cutting him into three pieces, each of which became a god: Kuraokami, Kurayamatsumi (闇山祇) "dark mountain respect", and Kuramitsuha 闇罔象 "dark water-spirit". This mitsuha 罔象 is a variant of mōryō 魍魎 "demon; evil spirit" (written with the "ghost radical" 鬼). Kurayamatsumi is alternately written Takaokami 高靇 "high rain-dragon". De Visser (1913:136) says, "This name is explained by one of the commentators as "the dragon-god residing on the mountains", in distinction from Kura-okami, "the dragon-god of the valleys". At length he drew the ten-span sword with which he was girt, and cut Kagu-tsuchi into three pieces, each of which became changed into a God. Moreover, the blood which dripped from the edge of the sword became the multitudinous rocks which are in the bed of the Easy-River of Heaven. This God was the father of Futsu-nushi no Kami. Moreover, the blood which dripped from the hilt-ring of the sword spurted out and became deities, whose names were Mika no Haya-hi no Kami and next Hi no Haya-hi no Kami. This Mika no Haya-hi no Kami was the parent of Take-mika-suchi no Kami. Another version is: "Mika no haya-hi no Mikoto, next Hi no haya-hi no Mikoto, and next Take-mika-tsuchi no Kami. Moreover, the blood which dripped from the point of the sword spurted out and became deities, who were called Iha-saku no Kami, after him Ne-saku no Kami, and next Iha-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto. This Iha-saku no Kami was the father of Futsu-nushi no Kami." One account says: "Iha-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto, and next Iha-tsutsu-me no Mikoto. Moreover, the blood which dripped from the head of the sword spurted out and became deities, who were called Kura o Kami no Kami, next Kura-yamatsumi no Kami, and next Kura-midzu-ha no Kami. (tr. Aston 1896:23) William George Aston (1896:24) footnotes translations for these kami names: Kuraokami "Dark-god", Kurayamatsumi "Dark-mountain-body-god", and Kuramitsuha "Dark-water-goddess". De Visser (1913:136–137) says Kuramitsuha could be translated "Dark-water-snake", "Valley-water-snake", or "Female-water-snake".
Kuraokami : The Man'yōshū poetry collection mentions an Okami 於可美 "rain dragon" living on an oka 岡 "ridge; knoll; hill". Lady Fujiwara, a daughter of Fujiwara no Kamatari, replies to a poem from her husband Emperor Tenmu (r. 672–686 CE– ) about an unseasonable snowstorm. It was by speaking To the dragon of my hill I caused this snowfall; A few flakes may have scattered. No doubt, out there where you are. (2:104, tr. Cranston 1993:490) Compare Edwin Cranston's translation with that of Burton Watson (1986:22), "I told the water god on my hill to let the snow fall. It scattered, and some must have fallen over your way!"
Kuraokami : The diverse Japanese kami of water and rainfall, such as Suijin 水神 "water god" and Okami, are worshipped at Shinto shrines, especially during times of drought. For instance, Niukawakami Jinja 丹生川上神社 in Kawakami, Nara is a center of prayers for Kuraokami, Takaokami, and Mizuhanome 罔象女. Some other examples of shrines to Okami are: Okami Jinja (龗神社) in Daitō, Osaka Okami Jinja (於加美神社) in Minamiaizu, Fukushima Okami Jinja (意加美神社) in Hirakata and Izumisano, Osaka Kuraokami Jinja (闇龗神社) in Ichikai, Tochigi Takaokami Jinja (高龗神社) on Mount Miwa Takaokami Jinja (多加意加美神社) in Shōbara, Hiroshima Kunitsu Okami Jinja (國津意加美神社) on Iki Island In addition, the water-god Takaokami is worshipped at various shrines named Kibune Jinja (貴船神社), found in places such as Sakyō-ku, Kyoto and Manazuru, Kanagawa.
Kuraokami : Aston, William George, tr. 1896. Nihongi: Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Times to A.D. 697. 2 vols. Kegan Paul. Chamberlain, Basil H., tr. 1919. The Kojiki, Records of Ancient Matters. Cranston, Edwin A. 1993. A Waka Anthology. Stanford University Press. de Visser, Marinus Willem (1913), The Dragon in China and Japan, J. Müller, archived from the original on 2008-10-26 Smith, G. Elliot. 1919. The Evolution of the Dragon Archived 2018-01-11 at the Wayback Machine. Longmans, Green & Company. Watson, Burton and Sato, Hiroaki. 1986. From the Country of Eight Islands: An Anthology of Japanese Poetry. Columbia University Press.
Kuraokami : Kuraokami, Takaokami, Kuramitsuha, Encyclopedia of Shinto Kura Okami, The Serene Dragon
Nāga : In various Asian religious traditions, the Nagas (Sanskrit: नाग, romanized: Nāga) are a divine, or semi-divine, race of half-human, half-serpent beings that reside in the netherworld (Patala), and can occasionally take human or part-human form, or are so depicted in art. A female naga is called a Nagi, or a Nagini. Their descendents are known as Nagavanshi. According to legend, they are the children of the sage Kashyapa and Kadru. Rituals devoted to these supernatural beings have been taking place throughout South Asia for at least 2,000 years. They are principally depicted in three forms: as entirely human with snakes on the heads and necks, as common serpents, or as half-human, half-snake beings in Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism. Nagaraja is the title given to the king of the nagas. Narratives of these beings hold cultural significance in the mythological traditions of many South Asian and Southeast Asian cultures, and within Hinduism and Buddhism. Communities such as the Nagavanshi, Khmer and Eelamese claim descent from this race.
Nāga : In Sanskrit, a nāgá (नाग) is a snake, most often depicted by the Indian cobra (Naja naja). A synonym for nāgá is phaṇin (फणिन्). There are several words for "snake" in general, and one of the very commonly used ones is sarpá (सर्प). Sometimes the word nāgá is also used generically to mean "snake". The word is cognate with English 'snake', Germanic: *snēk-a-, Proto-IE: *(s)nēg-o- (with s-mobile). Alternatively, an Indo-European etymology as a "hairless, naked animal" - cognate to English "naked" - would explain that the Sanskrit word nāga can also mean "cloud", "mountain" or "elephant".
Nāga : Nagas, as a serpent-shaped group of deities that often take form as cobras, are prominent in Hindu iconography, throughout the hindu texts (especially in the first book of the Mahābhārata) and in local folk traditions of worship. In some regions of the Himalaya, nagas are regarded as the divine rulers of the region - as in Kullu Valley, in Berinag and in the valley of the Pindar River, which is believed to be ruled by the ninefold Naiṇī Devī. Both in the Nilamata Purana of Kashmir and in the Swayambhu Purana of Kathmandu, the respective region begins its history as a lake, populated by nagas, which is later drained. Ancient Sanskrit texts such as the Mahabharata, the Ramayana, and the Puranas describe the nagas as a powerful, splendid and proud semi-divine species that can assume their physical form either as human (often with a halo of cobra hoods behind their head), as a partially human serpent, or as a whole serpent. Their domain is in the enchanted underworld, the underground realm filled with gems, gold and other earthly treasures called Naga-loka or Patala-loka. They are also often associated with bodies of waters — including rivers, lakes, seas, and wells — and are guardians of treasure. Their power and venom make them potentially dangerous to humans. However, in Hindu mythology, they often take the role of benevolent protagonists; in the Samudra Manthana, Vasuki, a nagaraja who abides on Shiva's neck, became the churning rope for churning of the Ocean of Milk. Their eternal archrival is the Garuḍa, the legendary semi-divine bird-like deity. Vishnu is originally portrayed in the form sheltered by Sheshanāga or reclining on Shesha, but the iconography has been extended to other deities as well. The serpent is a common feature in Ganesha iconography, and appears in many forms: around the neck, use as a sacred thread (Sanskrit: yajñyopavīta) wrapped around the stomach as a belt, held in a hand, coiled at the ankles, or as a throne. Shiva is often shown garlanded with a snake. Maehle (2006: p. 297) states that "Patanjali is thought to be a manifestation of the serpent of eternity".
Nāga : As in Hinduism, the Buddhist nāga generally has sometimes been portrayed as a human being with a snake or dragon extending over his head. One nāga, in human form, attempted to become a monk, and when telling it that such ordination was impossible, the Buddha told it how to ensure that it would be reborn a human, and so able to become a monk. The nagas are believed to both live on Nagaloka, among the other minor deities and in various parts of the human-inhabited earth. Some of them are water-dwellers, living in streams or the ocean; others are earth-dwellers, living in caverns. The nagas are the followers of Virūpākṣa (Pāli: Virūpakkha), one of the Four Heavenly Kings who guards the western direction. They act as guards upon Mount Sumeru, protecting the dēvas of Trāyastriṃśa from attacks by the asuras. Among the notable nagas of Buddhist tradition is Mucalinda, nagaraja and protector of the Buddha. In the Vinaya Sutra (I, 3), shortly after his enlightenment, the Buddha is meditating in a forest when a great storm arises, but graciously, King Mucalinda gives shelter to the Buddha from the storm by covering the Buddha's head with his seven snake heads. Then the king takes the form of a young Brahmin and renders the Buddha homage. In the Vajrayāna and Mahāsiddha traditions, nagas in their half-human form are depicted holding a nagas-jewel, kumbhas of amrita, or a terma that had been elementally encoded by adepts. In Tibetan Buddhism, nagas are known as klu or klu-mo and they are associated with water and cleanliness, as they live in oceans, rivers, lakes, and springs, and do not want their environments to be disturbed or polluted. The two chief disciples of the Buddha, Sariputta and Moggallāna are both referred to as Mahānāga or "Great nāga". Some of the most important figures in Buddhist history symbolize nagas in their names such as Dignāga, Nāgāsēna, and, although other etymons are assigned to his name, Nāgārjuna.
Nāga : In Thailand and Java, the nāga is a wealthy underworld deity. For Malay sailors, nagas are a type of dragon with many heads. In Laos they are beaked water serpents. In Tibet, they are said to be found in waterways and underground locations, and are susceptible to the suffering caused by human carelessness towards the natural environment.
Nāga : Adishesha, on whom Vishnu is in yoga nidra (Ananta shayana) Vasuki, the king of nagas and who coils over Shiva's neck and offered to serve as the rope to pull Mount Mandara in the Samudra Manthana (Churning of the Ocean of Milk) to release the amrita (nectar of the immortality). Kaliya, a snake conquered by Krishna Manasa, the Hindu goddess of Nagas and curer of snake-bite and sister of Vasuki Takshaka, the king of the nagas, and ruler of Khandava forest Ulupi, a companion of Arjuna in the epic Mahabharata Karkotaka, a naga king in Indian mythology who controls weather, that lived in a forest near Nishadha Kingdom and bit Nala at the request of Indra controls weather Mucalinda, a nāga in Buddhism who protected the Gautama Buddha from the elements after his enlightenment Padmavati, the Nāgī queen & companion of Dharanendra Apalala, Nāga in Buddhist mythology Shwe Nabay (Naga Medaw), a goddess or a Nat spirit in Burmese animistic mythology, who is believed to have married a Naga and died from heartbreak after he left her Paravataksha, his sword causes earthquakes and his roar caused thunder. Naga Seri Gumum, who lives in Tasik Chini, a freshwater lake in Pahang, Malaysia Yulong, the Dragon King of the West Sea in the Chinese classical novel Journey to the West, becomes a naga after completing his journey with Xuanzang Bakunawa, a dragon in Philippine mythology that is often represented as a gigantic sea serpent. Nagas are also present in Kapampangan polytheistic beliefs, such as Lakandanum. (See Deities of Philippine mythology.) Antaboga, the world serpent in Javanese and Balinese mythology of Indonesia, who created the world turtle Bedawang where the world resides on its back
Nāga : Nagiana (a site dedicated to Nāga ancestors) nagas in the Pali Canon nagas Image of a Seven-Headed Nāga nagas and Serpents Depictions of Nagas in the area of Angkor Wat in Cambodia nagas and Naginis: Serpent Figures in Hinduism and Buddhism Mekong River Commission paper on eels Dr. Kanoksilpa, a pediatrician at Nong Khai hospital, studied this phenomenon for four years and concludes the most likely explanation to be seasonal accumulations of methane gas
Nyami Nyami : The Nyami Nyami, otherwise known as the Zambezi River God or Zambezi Snake Spirit, is one of the most important gods of the Tonga people living along the Zambezi River. The Nyami Nyami is believed to protect the Tonga people and give them sustenance in difficult times. The River God is usually portrayed as male. Variously described as having the body of a snake and the head of a fish, a whirlpool or a river dragon, the Nyami Nyami is seen as the god of Zambezi Valley and the river before the creation of the Kariba Dam. He is regularly depicted as a snake-like being or dragon-like creature with a snake's torso and the head of a fish. It can be found as pendants on jewelry, usually carved out of wood, stone or bone, occasionally ivory, silver or gold both as a fashion accessory and as a good luck charm similar to the wearing of a St Christopher medallion. Elaborate traditionally carved walking sticks depicting the Nyami Nyami and its relationship with the valley's inhabitants were popular with tourists visiting Zambia and have historically been gifts to prestigious visitors. It is the traditional role of tribal elders and spirit mediums to intercede on behalf of the inhabitants of the river valley when the Nyami Nyami is angered. The Nyami Nyami is said to reside in the Zambezi River and control the life in and on the river. The spirits of the Nyami Nyami and his wife residing in the Kariba Gorge are God and Goddess of the underworld. The Tonga people believe the building of the Kariba Dam deeply offended the Nyami Nyami, separating him from his wife. The regular flooding and many deaths during the dam's construction were attributed to his wrath. The Tonga believe that the Nyami Nyami withdrew from the world of men after the Kariba Dam was completed.
Nyami Nyami : Although there are several different legends surrounding the Nyami Nyami the Kariba legend is the most documented and widely known fable. The Kariba Legend "The Tonga People lived in the Zambezi Valley for centuries in peaceful seclusion and with little contact with the outside world. They were simple folk who built their houses in kraal along the banks of the great river and believed that their gods looked after them supplying them with water and food. But their idealistic lifestyle was to be blown apart. In the early 1940s a report was made about the possibility of a hydro-electric scheme to supply power for the growing industry that colonialism had brought to the federation of countries that were known as Northern Rhodesia on one side of the river and Southern Rhodesia on the other, now Zambia and Zimbabwe. In 1956, construction on the Kariba Dam project was started. Heavy earth-moving equipment roared into the valley and tore out thousands of hundred-year-old trees to build roads and settlements to house the workers who poured into the area to build a dam that would harness the powerful river. The Tonga's peace and solitude was shattered and they were told to leave their homes and move away from the river to avoid the flood that the dam would cause. Many of them were forcibly removed as they would not believe that their fields and homes they had known all their lives would now be flooded and under water. The name Kariba comes from the word Kariva or karinga, meaning trap, which refers to a rock jutting out from the gorge where the dam wall was to be built. It was believed by the BaTonga to be the home of the Nyami Nyami, the river god, and they believed anyone who ventured near the rock was dragged down to spend eternity under the water. Reluctantly they allowed themselves to be resettled higher up the bank, but they believed the Nyami Nyami would never allow the dam to be built and eventually, when the project failed, they would move back to their homes. In 1957, when the dam was well on its way to completion, the Nyami Nyami struck. The worst floods ever known on the Zambezi washed away much of the partly built dam and the heavy equipment, killing many of the workers. Some of those killed were white men whose bodies disappeared mysteriously, and after an extensive search failed to find them, Valley Tonga elders were asked to assist as their tribesmen knew the river better than anyone. The elders explained the Nyami Nyami had caused the disaster and in order to appease his wrath a sacrifice should be made. They weren't taken seriously, but, in desperation, when relatives of the missing workers were due to arrive to claim the bodies of their loved ones, the search party agreed in the hope that the tribesmen would know where the bodies were likely to have been washed to. A black calf was slaughtered and floated on the river. The next morning the calf was gone and the workers’ bodies were in its place. The disappearance of the calf holds no mystery in the crocodile infested river, but the reappearance of the workers’ bodies three days after they had disappeared has never been satisfactorily explained. After the disaster, flow patterns of the river were studied to ascertain whether there was a likelihood of another flood and it was agreed a flood of comparable intensity would only occur once every thousand years. The very next rainy season, however, brought further floods even worse than the previous year. Nyami Nyami had struck again, destroying the coffer dam, the access bridge and parts of the main wall. The project survived and the great river was eventually controlled. In 1960 the generators were switched on and have been supplying electricity to Zimbabwe and Zambia ever since. The BaTonga still live on the shores of Zambezi River, and many still believe one day the Nyami Nyami will fulfill his promise and they will be able to return to their homes on the banks of the river. They believe the Nyami Nyami and his wife were separated by the wall across the river, and the frequent earth tremors felt in the area since the wall was built are caused by the spirit trying to reach his wife, and one day he will destroy the dam. The small earthquakes are actually caused by the weight of water stored in Lake Kariba pressing down on the Earth's crust, and intensify with changes in water levels in the lake.
Nyami Nyami : Zambezi Kariba Dam == References ==
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba (Meitei: ꯄꯥꯈꯪꯕ, lit. 'the one who knows his father') is a primordial deity, often represented in the form of a dragon, in Meitei mythology and Sanamahism, the indigenous religion of Manipur. He is depicted in the heraldry of Manipur kingdom, which originated in paphal (Meitei: ꯄꯥꯐꯜ), mythical illustrations of the deity. It is believed that the ancestor of one of the Meitei clans manifested himself as the Pakhangba. The identity of the deity is often fused with Nongda Lairen Pakhangba, the first ruler of the Ningthouja dynasty. The title Pakhangba was also used by other kings in the history of Manipur.
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba and his elder brother Sanamahi were told by their father that the one who could circumambulate the universe seven times and reach him first would be given the throne of the universe. Sanamahi set out immediately. Pakhangba, besides being the younger brother, was less strong. His mother Leimarel Sidabi, said that circling his father's throne is equivalent to the circling of the entire universe. So, he circled the throne, and his father was satisfied with Pakhangba's knowledge. So, Pakhangba was given his name, which means "one who has realised his father" and was enthroned.
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba is depicted as a serpent with the antlers of a sangai, or brow-antlered deer, signifying the cultural synthesis of two different totemic belief systems, which are the worship of serpents and stags.: 84 Serpents are the totem creatures of the Ningthouja clan. Ningthoujas do not consume any fishes or plants that look like serpents, as a mark of respect for their ancestors. The Sangai is associated with the Luwang clan. The Chakpa people, who are a part of the Meitei community, also regard deer as their totem animals.: 84 According to legend, Pudangkoi Khutkoiba, a king of the Luwangs, was once transformed into a deer. He was inadvertently killed by his own younger brother, who didn't know his true identity. Once the error was recognised, the head and antlers of the deer were brought into and preserved in the royal palace. For the inauguration of a royal boat of a Luwang king, the preserved horned head was decoratively installed on the stern. After the cultural integration of the Luwangs and the Meiteis, this tradition was integrated into the making of Meitei hiyang hiren (Meitei for 'royal boats'). Simultaneously, the sides of the boat are decorated to resemble the body of serpentine dragon, thereby looking like the features of deity Pakhangba.: 85 In the post-Khagemba era, representations of Pakhangba in the form of a paphal (a coiled serpent or dragon biting its own tail, similar to an oubouros became prominent.: 85
Pākhangbā : In relation to Pakhangba, Meitei language has two commonly used words to refer to the snakes or serpents. The words are "lin" and "lairen". Lin is used to refer to small snakes, usually the poisonous snakes. On the other hand, "Lairen" is used to refer to the large snakes, usually the pythons, as well as any big mythical snakes. Whenever anyone encounters a snake, they may attribute it to the "lin" or "lairen" or any other honorifics dedicated to divine serpents. Sometimes, they simply attribute it to the gods, or directly to Pakhangba.: 203 Pythons are related to Pakhangba in the world of charms and fortunes. Many people claim that their lives have changed in dramatic ways after encountering a pythons (or Pakhangba).: 212 There are some people who believe in the millenarian return of Pakhangba. According to their beliefs, Pakhangba will re-unite the people of the plains and the hills of Manipur, both politically and religiously, ending decades of tension and violent insurgency.: 208
Pākhangbā : The cult of Pakhangba extraordinarily has an ability to integrate different deities. There are numerous deities, whose names are sufficed with the word "Pakhangba", starting from cosmological deities to ancestral deities. Notable ones are Nongda Lairen Pakhangba, Tangja Leela Pakhangba, Leinung Loncha Pakhangba, Saram Tangkhul Pakhangba, Loidam Thaja Pakhangba and Laiyingthou Pakhangba.: 84
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba has numerous consorts, belonging to different communities and ethnicities. One legend of Pakhangba says that he has seven wives, who give birth to the seven Meitei clans. It signifies the integration of different communities and ethnicities into one single nation.: 85 Lady Liksanu Saphabi belonging to Kabui people and Thangal people, lady Khamlang Taobi belonging to Chothe people, lady Chotenu belonging to Kom people and lady Leiyoi Nurabi belonging to Langmeidong are a few of the numerous consorts of the Meitei deity Pakhangba. Lady Saram Tangkhul Nurabi is the consort of Tangkhul Pakhangba, a Tangkhul deity, who is a divine form of Pakhangba.: 84
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba is mentioned in numerous ancient Meitei language texts, including the Thanglon Thangchat,: 4 the Pakhangba Laihui, the Pakhangba Phambal,: xi the "Pakhangba Naoyom",: 128 the "Pakhangba Nongkarol",: 147 etc.
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba, as a heraldic dragon, was present in all the former royal flags and coats of arms of Manipur. The kingdom of Manipur had a set of two flags, a white one and a red one. All featured the Pakhangba dragon in the centre, although not as prominently in the latter flags.
Pākhangbā : Keiyen is an ancient Meitei language song describing the conflict between Pakhangba (Apanba) and his elder brother Sanamahi (Asheeba), as a conflict between a tiger and a cock respectively, having mythological and symbolic importance to the Meitei culture. It is symbolically represented in the Ke-kre-Chongba performance. Younger brother Pakhangba's attempt to escape, along with his seven goddesses, from the elder brother Sanamahi is depicted in the song. Its interpretation by the different minstrels, maibas and maibis, have many variations. Metaphorically, the song is about a cock (Pakhangba) being pursued by a tiger (Sanamahi). In Ancient Meitei language, a tiger is termed as “Kei”. “Yangen” is a name of a small wild bushy shrub plant. “Shamba” means “to traverse” in Meitei. “Shyao Shyao” refers to the ancient Meitei onomatopoeic word for the sound produced while traversing the bushy way by the tiger. “Yengkhong Phate” refers to the ominous sound of the cock. It implies that Pakhangba's deeds are not good and so, he deserves to be devoured as a punishment. But, that very cock is not an ordinary one, as it belongs to Lai (Meitei for 'God'). The last line indicates that the entire actions of everyone are done as a divine will of God, thereby showing the ultimate power of the Almighty God and his process of the creation of the entire universe. The Meitei philosophy associated with Keiyen is imbibed in the dances performed in the Lai Haraoba. Later, it gradually evolved into present day dance of the Thabal Chongba.: 187
Pākhangbā : In 1992, Meitei King Okendrajit Singh, the then ruler of Manipur Kingdom, converted from Hinduism to Sanamahism, the traditional Meitei religion to become a revivalist. In 2020, Leisemba Sanajaoba, the son of the former king Okendrajit, took oath of joining as an MP inside the Rajya Sabha on behalf of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), mentioning the name of deity Pakhangba, besides Sanamahi and Govindajee (Krishna). The state administrative office of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Imphal houses a shrine dedicated to the deity Pakhangba. The BJP-ruled state government of Manipur developed the sacred sites of Pakhangba and performed rituals in the Kangla. Other opposition political parties are also seen in engaging religious activities in relation to deity Pakhangba. During his 2019 Parliamentary election campaign, Kaiku Rajkumar, a renowned politician-turned actor of Meitei cinema, visited the Pakhangba Temple, Kangla and publicly performed laibau chenba (Meitei for 'ritual divination').: 218
Pākhangbā : In the Sylhet Division of Bangladesh, a temple dedicated to deity Pakhangba, was constructed during the time of Maharaja Gambhir Singh, on a brick platform, having 15.5 m in breadth, 37 m in length and 90 cm in thickness, facing southwards. It is 24 m tall. According to its architectural design, it has three parts, which are the foundation (base) part, the sanctum sanctorum and the conical portion of the roof, inclining at 75 degree. It also has low relief arts depicting peacock, moon and sun on the upper part of its entrance door. The eastern wall is carved with the relief arts depicting moon, horse and cow.: 172
Pākhangbā : A few holy shrines dedicated to deity Pakhangba are located in Myanmar. One notable example is that of the Tadalel (Tadaley) village in Amarapura township in Mandalay Division. In 2023, the Myanmar Meitei Development Association (MMDA), an organization based in Mandalay, Myanmar, requested to Nongthombam Biren, the then Chief Minister of Manipur, to give assistance for the preservation and protection of the holy site.
Pākhangbā : In Tripura Kingdom, a temple dedicated to deity Pakhangba was built during the coronation of Tripuri King Radha Kishore Manikya, highlighting the cultural heritage of the Meitei people in Tripura, under the influence of Meitei queens. Both the mother and the wife of King Radha Kishore Manikya are Meitei women.: 357 Pakhangba is still worshipped in present times in the Pakhangba Temple, located near the Royal Palace of Tripura.: 6 During the reign of Meitei king Marjit Singh in Manipur Kingdom, Raja Borothakur Krishna Kishore ruled Tripura Kingdom. The Tripuri king's first and second queens are both Meitei women. The first queen is Sija Chandrakala Devi, a Meitei princess and the second queen is a Meitei Brahmin lady, thereby also known as "Bamon Leima". With their strong influences, Meitei culture flourished in Tripura, with the proliferation of cults dedicated to different Meitei deities, most prominently deity Pakhangba, at the region of Bonmalipur.: 24
Pākhangbā : In the 2018 edition of the Sangai festival held in Manipur, twenty artistes, standing and dancing in the form of a human chain, presented a lively 30 metres long image of deity Pakhangba, dancing on the stage for 45 minutes, depicting the origin of the human beings, as adapted from the Lai Haraoba festival performances, while presenting a theatrical show titled Laigi Machasing (Meitei for 'Children of God'), choreographed by Sangeet Natak Akademi's Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar Awardee Sinam Basu. A Mumbai-based group of musical artists titled "Serpents of Pakhangba", named after the deity Pakhangba himself, formed in 2019, is continuously producing musical works related to Meitei mythology and Meitei folklore.
Pākhangbā : Lists of deities in Sanamahism Dragons in Manipuri mythology History of Manipur Kangla Palace Ningthouja dynasty
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba Phamlup (in Manipuri). India: Publications Divisions Reforms, Imphal. 2009. Chaoba, Kangbam (1985). Pakhangba Naoyom (in Manipuri). Digital Library of India. Bheigya Singh, Yengkhom (1985). Pakhangba (in Manipuri). Digital Library of India. Kala Meitei, Pukhrambam. Pakhangba (in Manipuri). Digital Library of India. Ibobi, laikhuram (1995). Pakhangba Laining (in Manipuri). Digital Library of India. Bihari Singh, Huirem (2012). Chothe Thangwai Pakhangba (in Manipuri). Digital Library of India. Kokngangsana, Rajkumar (1955). Kanglei Langba Pakhangba (in Manipuri). Ningthou Macha Manisana Heirangkhoithong Keibung Imphal. Ngamba, Chongthamcha (1989). Mapugee Matik Mayai (in Manipuri). Khwairakpam, Biren; Chingakham, Dinachandra (8 October 2018). The Lai of Manipur: Andro and Sengmai. Independently Published. ISBN 978-1-7266-9002-7. Parratt, John (2017). The Coils of Pakhangba: A Culture History of Meeteis. Mittal Publications. ISBN 978-81-8324-823-5.
Pākhangbā : Pakhangba (metadata) at Internet Archive Pakhangba (text contents) at Internet Archive Pakhangba at e-pao.net Pakhangba at dsal.uchicago.edu (Digital South Asia Library) Paphal: the mythical assumptions of Lord Pakhangba, ruling deity of Manipur Archived 8 March 2022 at the Wayback Machine
Quetzalcōātl : Quetzalcoatl () (Nahuatl: "Feathered Serpent") is a deity in Aztec culture and literature. Among the Aztecs, he was related to wind, Venus, Sun, merchants, arts, crafts, knowledge, and learning. He was also the patron god of the Aztec priesthood. He was one of several important gods in the Aztec pantheon, along with the gods Tlaloc, Tezcatlipoca and Huitzilopochtli. The two other gods represented by the planet Venus are Tlaloc (ally and the god of rain) and Xolotl (psychopomp and its twin). Quetzalcoatl wears around his neck the breastplate ehēcacōzcatl, "the spirally voluted wind jewel". This talisman was a conch shell cut at the cross-section and was likely worn as a necklace by religious rulers, as such objects have been discovered in burials in archaeological sites throughout Mesoamerica, and potentially symbolized patterns witnessed in hurricanes, dust devils, seashells, and whirlpools, which were elemental forces that had significance in Aztec mythology. Codex drawings pictured both Quetzalcoatl and Xolotl wearing an ehēcacōzcatl around the neck. Additionally, at least one major cache of offerings includes knives and idols adorned with the symbols of more than one god, some of which were adorned with wind jewels. Animals thought to represent Quetzalcoatl include resplendent quetzals, rattlesnakes (coatl meaning "serpent" in Nahuatl), crows, and macaws. In his form as Ehecatl he is the wind, and is represented by spider monkeys, ducks, and the wind itself. In his form as the morning star, Venus, he is also depicted as a harpy eagle. In Mazatec legends, the astrologer deity Tlahuizcalpanteuctli, who is also represented by Venus, bears a close relationship with Quetzalcoatl. The earliest known documentation of the worship of a Feathered Serpent occurs in Teotihuacan in the first century BC or first century AD. That period lies within the Late Preclassic to Early Classic period (400 BC – 600 AD) of Mesoamerican chronology; veneration of the figure appears to have spread throughout Mesoamerica by the Late Classic period (600–900 AD). In the Postclassic period (900–1519 AD), the worship of the feathered-serpent deity centered in the primary Mexican religious center of Cholula. In this period the deity is known to have been named Quetzalcōhuātl by his Nahua followers. In the Maya area he was approximately equivalent to Kukulkan and Gukumatz, names that also roughly translate as "feathered serpent" in different Mayan languages. In the era following the 16th-century Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, a number of records conflated Quetzalcoatl with Ce Acatl Topiltzin, a ruler of the mythico-historic city of Tollan. Historians debate to what degree, or whether at all, these narratives about this legendary Toltec ruler describe historical events. Furthermore, early Spanish sources written by clerics tend to identify the god-ruler Quetzalcoatl of these narratives with either Hernán Cortés or Thomas the Apostle—identifications which have also become sources of a diversity of opinions about the nature of Quetzalcoatl.
Quetzalcōātl : The name Quetzalcoatl comes from the Nahuatl language and means "Precious serpent" or "Quetzal-feathered Serpent". In the 17th century, Ixtlilxóchitl, a descendant of Aztec royalty and historian of the Nahua people, wrote, "Quetzalcoatl, in its literal sense, means 'serpent of precious feathers' but in the allegorical sense, 'wisest of men'."
Quetzalcōātl : In Mesoamerican history, many different ethnopolitical groups worshiped a feathered-serpent deity. Evidence of such worship comes from the iconography of different Mesoamerican cultures, in which serpent motifs occur frequently. On the basis of the different symbolic systems used in portrayals of the feathered-serpent deity in different cultures and periods, scholars have interpreted the religious and symbolic meaning of the feathered-serpent deity in Mesoamerican cultures.
Quetzalcōātl : To the Aztecs, Quetzalcoatl was, as his name indicates, a feathered serpent. He was a creator deity having contributed essentially to the creation of mankind. He also had anthropomorphic forms, for example in his aspects as Ehecatl the wind god. Among the Aztecs, the name Quetzalcoatl was also a priestly title, as the two most important priests of the Aztec Templo Mayor were called "Quetzalcoatl Tlamacazqui". In the Aztec ritual calendar, different deities were associated with the cycle-of-year names: Quetzalcoatl was tied to the year Ce Acatl (One Reed), which correlates to the year 1519.
Quetzalcōātl : Since the sixteenth century, it has been widely held that the Aztec Emperor Moctezuma II initially believed the landing of Hernán Cortés in 1519 to be Quetzalcoatl's return. This view has been questioned by ethno-historians who argue that the Quetzalcoatl-Cortés connection is not found in any document that was created independently of post-Conquest Spanish influence, and that there is little proof of a pre-Hispanic belief in Quetzalcoatl's return. Most documents expounding this theory are of entirely Spanish origin, such as Cortés's letters to Charles V of Spain, in which Cortés goes to great pains to present the naive gullibility of the Aztecs in general as a great aid in the conquest of the Aztec Empire. Much of the idea of Cortés being seen as a deity can be traced back to the Florentine Codex written down some 50 years after the conquest. In the Codex's description of the first meeting between Moctezuma and Cortés, the Aztec ruler is described as giving a prepared speech in classical oratorial Nahuatl, a speech which, as described in the codex written by the Franciscan Bernardino de Sahagún and his Tlatelolcan informants, included such prostrate declarations of divine or near-divine admiration as: You have graciously come on earth, you have graciously approached your water, your high place of Mexico, you have come down to your mat, your throne, which I have briefly kept for you, I who used to keep it for you. and: You have graciously arrived, you have known pain, you have known weariness, now come on earth, take your rest, enter into your palace, rest your limbs; may our lords come on earth. The exact intent of these words is uncertain. The rhetorical style of classic Nahuatl was full of subtle nuances and is still not well understood. Matthew Restall argues that if Moctezuma's politely offered his throne to Cortés, it may have been meant as the exact opposite since politeness in Aztec culture was a way to assert dominance and show superiority. This speech, which has been widely referred to, has been a factor in the widespread belief that Moctezuma was addressing Cortés as the returning god Quetzalcoatl. Other parties have also promulgated the idea that the Mesoamericans believed the conquistadors, and in particular Cortés, to be awaited gods: most notably the historians of the Franciscan order such as Fray Gerónimo de Mendieta. Some Franciscans at this time held millennarian beliefs and some of them believed that Cortés' coming to the New World ushered in the final era of evangelization before the coming of the millennium. Franciscans such as Toribio de Benavente "Motolinia" saw elements of Christianity in the pre-Columbian religions and therefore believed that Mesoamerica had been evangelized before, possibly by Thomas the Apostle, who, according to legend, had "gone to preach beyond the Ganges". Franciscans then equated the original Quetzalcoatl with Thomas and imagined that the Indians had long-awaited his return to take part once again in God's kingdom. Historian Matthew Restall concludes that: The legend of the returning lords, originated during the Spanish-Mexica war in Cortés' reworking of Moctezuma's welcome speech, had by the 1550s merged with the Cortés-as-Quetzalcoatl legend that the Franciscans had started spreading in the 1530s. (Restall 2001 p. 114) Some scholarship maintains the view that the Aztec Empire's fall may be attributed in part to the belief in Cortés as the returning Quetzalcoatl, notably in works by David Carrasco (1982), H. B. Nicholson (2001 (1957)) and John Pohl (2016). Carrasco's work was revised in 2000, and the new edition provides a valuable overview of the controversy about Cortes and Quetzalcoatl. However, a majority of Mesoamericanist scholars, such as Matthew Restall (2003, 2018), James Lockhart (1994), Susan D. Gillespie (1989), Camilla Townsend (2003a, 2003b), Louise Burkhart, Michel Graulich and Michael E. Smith (2003), among others, consider the "Quetzalcoatl/Cortés myth" as one of many myths about the Spanish conquest which have risen in the early post-conquest period. There is no question that the legend of Quetzalcoatl played a significant role in the colonial period. However, this legend likely has a foundation in events that took place immediately prior to the arrival of the Spaniards. A 2012 exhibition at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Dallas Museum of Art, "The Children of the Plumed Serpent: the Legacy of Quetzalcoatl in Ancient Mexico", demonstrated the existence of a powerful confederacy of Eastern Nahuas, Mixtecs and Zapotecs, along with the peoples they dominated throughout southern Mexico between 1200 and 1600 (Pohl, Fields, and Lyall 2012, Harvey 2012, Pohl 2003). They maintained a major pilgrimage and commercial center at Cholula, Puebla which the Spaniards compared to both Rome and Mecca because the cult of the god united its constituents through a field of common social, political, and religious values without dominating them militarily. This confederacy engaged in almost seventy-five years of nearly continuous conflict with the Aztec Empire of the Triple Alliance until the arrival of Cortés. Members of this confederacy from Tlaxcala, Puebla, and Oaxaca provided the Spaniards with the army that first reclaimed the city of Cholula from its pro-Aztec ruling faction, and ultimately defeated the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City). The Tlaxcalteca, along with other city-states across the Plain of Puebla, then supplied the auxiliary and logistical support for the conquests of Guatemala and West Mexico while Mixtec and Zapotec caciques (Colonial indigenous rulers) gained monopolies in the overland transport of Manila galleon trade through Mexico, and formed highly lucrative relationships with the Dominican order in the new Spanish imperial world economic system that explains so much of the enduring legacy of indigenous life-ways that characterize southern Mexico and explain the popularity of the Quetzalcoatl legends that continued through the colonial period to the present day.
Quetzalcōātl : Five Suns, a legend of Quetzalcōātl and his brothers Kukulkan Quetzalcoatlus, a pterosaur from the Late Cretaceous named after Quetzalcoatl Thoth Hermes Mercury (mythology) Ningishzida
Quetzalcōātl : Media related to Quetzalcoatl at Wikimedia Commons
Rainbow Serpent : The Rainbow Serpent or Rainbow Snake is a common deity often seen as the creator God, known by numerous names in different Australian Aboriginal languages by the many different Aboriginal peoples. It is a common motif in the art and religion of many Aboriginal Australian peoples. Much like the archetypal mother goddess, the Rainbow Serpent creates land and diversity for the Aboriginal people, but when disturbed can bring great chaos. There are many names and stories associated with the serpent, all of which communicate the significance and power of this being within Aboriginal mythology, which includes the worldview commonly referred to as The Dreaming. The serpent is viewed as a giver of life through its association with water, but can be a destructive force if angry. The Rainbow Serpent is one of the most common and well-known Aboriginal stories and is of great importance to Aboriginal society. Not all of the myths in this family describe the ancestral being as a snake. Of those that do, not all of them draw a connection with a rainbow. However, a link with water or rain is typical. When the rainbow is seen in the sky, it is said to be the Rainbow Serpent moving from one waterhole to another, and this divine concept explained why some waterholes never dried up when drought struck. The Rainbow Serpent Festival is an annual festival of music, arts and culture in Victoria.
Rainbow Serpent : The Rainbow Serpent is known by different names by the many different Aboriginal cultures. Yurlunggur is the name of the "rainbow serpent" according to the Murngin (Yolngu) in north-eastern Arnhemland, also styled Yurlungur, Yulunggur, Jurlungur, Julunggur or Julunggul. The Yurlunggur was considered "the great father". The serpent is called Witij/Wititj by the Galpu clan of the Dhangu people, one of Yolngu peoples. Kanmare is the name of the great water serpent in Queensland among the Pitapita people of the Boulia District; it is apparently a giant carpet snake, and recorded under the name Cunmurra further south. The same snake is called Tulloun among the Mitakoodi (Maithakari). Two mythical Kooremah of the Mycoolon (Maikulan) tribe of Queensland, are cosmic carpet snakes 40 miles long, residing in watery realm of the dead, or on the pathway leading to it; this is probably equivalent to the rainbow snake also. Other names include:
Rainbow Serpent : Though the concept of the Rainbow Serpent has existed for a very long time in Aboriginal Australian cultures, it was introduced to the wider world through the work of anthropologists. In fact, the name Rainbow Serpent or Rainbow Snake appears to have been coined in English by Alfred Radcliffe-Brown, an anthropologist who noticed the same concept going under different names among various Aboriginal Australian cultures, and called it "the rainbow-serpent myth of Australia." It has been suggested that this name implies that there is only one Rainbow Serpent, when the concept actually varies quite a bit from one Aboriginal culture to another, and should be properly called the Rainbow Serpent myths of Australia. It has also been suggested that the Serpent's position as the most prominent creator God in the Australian tradition has largely been the creation of non-Aboriginal anthropologists. Another error of the same kind is the way in which Western-educated people, with a cultural stereotype of Greco-Roman or Norse myths, tell the Aboriginal stories in the past tense. For the Indigenous people of Australia, the stories are everywhen – past, present and future. Robert Blust has documented beliefs about the rainbow in tribal societies around the world that closely resemble the Rainbow Serpent myth of Australia. Rather than supporting the long-standing academic supposition that this belief complex is peculiar to one continent, the ethnographic record shows that it is a culture universal.
Rainbow Serpent : The rainbow serpent is in the first instance, the rainbow itself. It is said to inhabit particular waterholes, springs etc., because such bodies of water can exhibit spectral colors by diffracting light, according to one explanation. Likewise, the rainbow quartz crystal and certain seashells are also associated with the Rainbow Serpent, and are used in rituals involving the rainbow serpent. The underlying reasons are likewise explainable, since quartz acts as a prism to diffract light into different colours, while the mother of pearl exhibits an iridescence of colours. The Dreaming (or Dreamtime or Tjukurrpa or Jukurrpa) stories tell of the great spirits and totems during creation, in animal and human form that moulded the barren and featureless earth. The Rainbow Serpent came from beneath the ground and created huge ridges, mountains, and gorges as it pushed upward. The Rainbow Serpent is understood to be of immense proportions and inhabits deep permanent waterholes and is in control of life's most precious resource, water. In some cultures, the Rainbow Serpent is considered to be the ultimate creator of everything in the universe. In some cultures, the Rainbow Serpent is male; in others, female; in yet others, the gender is ambiguous or the Rainbow Serpent is hermaphroditic or bigender, thus an androgynous entity. Some commentators have suggested that the Rainbow Serpent is a phallic symbol, which fits its connection with fertility myths and rituals. When the Serpent is characterized as female or bigender, it is sometimes depicted with breasts, as in the case of the Kunmanggur serpent. Other times, the Serpent has no particular gender. The serpent is sometimes ascribed with a having crest or a mane or on its head, or being bearded as well. While it is single-headed, the Yurlunggur of Arnhem land may possess a double-body. In some stories, the Serpent is associated with a large fruit bat, sometimes called a "flying fox" in Australian English, engaged in a rivalry over a woman. Some scholars have identified other creatures, such as a bird, crocodile, dingo, or lizard, as taking the role of the Serpent in stories. In all cases, these animals are also associated with water. The Rainbow Serpent has also been identified with, or considered to be related to, the bunyip, a fearful, water-hole dwelling creature in Australian mythology. Unlike many other deities, the Rainbow Serpent does not have a human form and remains in the form of animal. While each culture has a different interpretation on gender and which animal the deity is, it is nonetheless, always an animal.> The sometimes unpredictable Rainbow Serpent (in contrast to the unyielding sun) replenishes the stores of water, forming gullies and deep channels as the Rainbow Serpent slithers across the landscape. In this belief system, without the Serpent, no rain would fall and the Earth would dry up. In other cultures, the serpent stops rainfall: the Numereji serpent's iwaiyu (its soul or shadow) cast upon the sky becomes the rainbow, and the serpent ascends to stop the rain, the Andrénjinyi is said to halt the rain caused by enemies. The Rainbow Serpent is sometimes associated with human blood, especially circulation and the menstrual cycle, and is considered a healer, because of this the Rainbow Serpent is also representative of fertility. Thunder and lightning are said to stem from when the Rainbow Serpent is angry, causing powerful storms and cyclones that will drown those who have upset her. Other punishments carried out by the Rainbow Serpent included being turned into either a human or to stone.
Rainbow Serpent : Stories about the Rainbow Serpent have been passed down from generation to generation. The serpent story may vary however, according to environmental differences. Peoples of the monsoonal areas depict an epic interaction of the sun, Serpent, and wind in their Dreamtime stories, whereas those of the central desert experience less drastic seasonal shifts and their stories reflect this. It is known both as a benevolent protector of its people (the groups from the country around) and as a malevolent punisher of law breakers. The Rainbow Serpent's mythology is closely linked to land, water, life, social relationships, and fertility. The Rainbow Serpent often takes part in transitions from adolescence to adulthood for young men and swallows them to vomit them up later. The most common motif in Rainbow Serpent stories is the Serpent as creator, with the Serpent often bringing life to an empty space. One prominent Rainbow Serpent myth is the story of the Wawalag or Wagilag sisters, from the Yolngu people of Arnhem Land. According to legend, the sisters are travelling together when the older sister gives birth, and her blood flows to a waterhole where the Rainbow Serpent lives. In another version of the tale, the sisters are travelling with their mother, Kunapipi, all of whom know ancient secrets, and the Serpent is merely angered by their presence in its area. The Rainbow Serpent then traces the scent back to the sisters sleeping in their hut, a metaphor for the uterus. The Rainbow Serpent enters, a symbolic representation of a snake entering a hole, and eats them and their children. However, the Rainbow Serpent regurgitates them after being bitten by an ant, and this act creates Arnhem Land. Now, the Serpent speaks in their voices and teaches sacred rituals to the people living there. Wollunqua is the Warumungu people's version of the Rainbow Serpent, telling of an enormous snake which emerged from a watering hole called Kadjinara in the Murchison Ranges, Northern Territory. Another story from the Northern Territory tells of how a great mother arrives from the sea, travelling across Australia and giving birth to the various Aboriginal peoples. In some versions, the great mother is accompanied by the Rainbow Serpent (or Lightning Snake), who brings the wet season of rains and floods. From the Great Sandy Desert area in the northern part of Western Australia comes a story that explains how the Wolfe Creek Crater, or Kandimalal, was created by a star falling from heaven, creating a crater in which a Rainbow Serpent took up residence, though in some versions it is the Serpent which falls from heaven and creates the crater. The story sometimes continues telling of how an old hunter chased a dingo into the crater and got lost in a tunnel created by the Serpent, never to be found again, with the dingo being eaten and spat out by the Serpent. The Noongar people of south-western Western Australia tell of how Rainbow Serpents, or Wagyls, smashed and pushed boulders around to form trails on Mount Matilda, along with creating waterways such as the Avon River. Some Aboriginal peoples in the Kimberley region believe that it was the Rainbow Serpent who deposited spirit-children throughout pools in which women become impregnated when they wade in the water. This process is sometimes referred to as "netting a fish". A more child-friendly version of the Rainbow Serpent myth tells of how a serpent rose through the Earth to the surface, where she summoned frogs, tickled their bellies to release water to create pools and rivers, and is now known as the mother of life. Another tale is told in Dick Roughsey's children's book, which tells how the Rainbow Serpent creates the landscape of Australia by thrashing about and, by tricking and swallowing two boys, ends up creating the population of Australia by various animal, insect, and plant species.
Rainbow Serpent : The Serpent has been depicted in rock art in various forms, generally snake-like but sometimes with heads resembling various marsupials (macropods), flying foxes, or in some cases birds. Unlike an ordinary snake, it may be depicted with appendages such as animal legs and feet or an unusual tail in rock art. The Rainbow Serpent is also representative of Yams and water-lilies. Heavy rainfall brought an abundance of both to the land and there is rock art depicting the serpent as a "Yam Serpent". Other rock art depicts the Rainbow Serpent with a flying fox head or like attributes. On the Arnhem Plateau in Australia, there is also early art depicting the serpent as an urchin or "seaweed like." It is believed that early painting of the serpent had similar characteristics to that of a seahorse, for example, a curved body, long nose, and curved tail. All depictions of the Rainbow Serpent in rock art are very detailed and similar across Australia. The main regional differences found between the serpent rock art are in the tail of the serpent and the head of the serpent; some have 3 tails and others, a crocodile's tail.
Rainbow Serpent : Various species/taxa of snakes in the natural world have been proposed as the model for the rainbow serpent. One suggestion is that it is modeled on the "rock python", regarding the rainbow serpent in the myth of the Wawilak sisters among the Yonglu people. In some tellings of the sisters myth, the encounter with the Yurlunggur serpent occurs in its water-hole called the Mirrimina well, glossed as 'rock python's back'. Specifically, the banded rock python (aka Children's python; Liasis childreni <sc>syn.</sc> Antaresia childreni) has been identified with the Yurlunggur by one researcher. This species is of brown colour (cf. Yurlunggur described as "giant copper snake") flecked with darker patches and having a ventral side that is opalescent white. Another suggestion is the Oenpelli rock python (aka Oenpelli python), which is called nawaran in the native Kunwinjku language, according to whose lore grew into the Ngalyod serpent. This snake is also brown with darker blotches with iridescent scales. Another candidate is the water python (Liasis fuscus), which is a particularly colourful snake. The carpet snake (Morelia spilota variegata) is considered a form that the Rainbow Serpent can take by the Walmadjari people in northern Western Australia. The Kanmare or Kooremah of Queensland are also considered enormous carpet snakes, as already mentioned. There are also some geologist that study and look at the Rainbow Serpent art in Australia who see many similarities between the Serpent and seahorses or pipefish. It's also been described as looking like a sea urchin or seaweed. Considering that the Aborigines are in Australia and surrounded by lush rainforest, tropical ocean, and great diversity, the origins of the Serpents form are varied. Paleoherpetology In Queensland, a fossil of a snake was found, and they believe that it came from the prehistoric family of large snakes that may have inspired the original Rainbow Serpent. Wonambi is a genus that consisted of two species of very large snakes. These species were not pythons, like Australia's other large constrictors of the genus Morelia, and are currently classified in the extinct family Madtsoiidae that became extinct elsewhere in the world 55 million years in the past.
Rainbow Serpent : In addition to stories about the Rainbow Serpent being passed down from generation to generation, the Rainbow Serpent has been worshipped through rituals and has also inspired cultural artifacts such as artwork and songs, a tradition which continues today. There are many ancient rituals associated with the Rainbow Serpent that are still practiced today. The myth of the Wawalag sisters of Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory marks the importance of the female menstruation process and led to the establishment of the Kunapipi blood ritual of the goddess, in which the Indigenous Australians allegorically recreate the Rainbow Serpent eating the Wawalag sisters through dance and pantomime, and can be regarded as a fertility ritual. Female menstruation is sacred to many Indigenous Australian cultures because it distinguishes the time when a female is capable of bringing life into the world, putting a woman on the same level of creative abilities as the Rainbow Serpent. It is for this reason that men will attempt to mimic this holy process by cutting their arms and/or penises and letting their blood run over their own bodies, each other's bodies, and even into a woman's uterus. Men will sometimes mix their blood with a women's menstrual blood, letting them flow together in a ceremonial unification of the sexes. The Rainbow Serpent is also identified as a healer and can pass on its properties as a healer to humans through a ritual.
Rainbow Serpent : The Rainbow Serpent, in addition to the continuation of traditional beliefs is often referenced in modern culture by providing inspiration for art, film, literature, music, religion, and social movements. For example, The Rainbow Serpent Festival, an annual music festival in Australia, and the Rainbow Serpent Project, a series of films which document the filmmaker's journey to various sacred sites around the Earth, are both inspired and named after the creature. Many Aboriginal Australian artists continue to be inspired by the Rainbow Serpent and use it as a subject in their art. An artist by the name of Belle Parker created a painted in the year 2000 called 'The Journey'. This painting combined the Rainbow Serpent with the Christian cross. She even won the Blake prize for this piece. The Rainbow Serpent has also appeared as a character in literature. The Lardil people's Dreaming story of the Rainbow Serpent was retold in Dick Roughsey's award-winning Australian children's book The Rainbow Serpent; the Rainbow Serpent has also appeared as a character in comic books such as Hellblazer. The Rainbow Serpent, under the name Yurlungur, has featured as a demon or persona in several titles of the Megami Tensei series of Japanese role-playing games. The Rainbow Serpent has also appeared as an antagonistic character in the novel Eyes of the Rainbow Serpent. The Rainbow Serpent can still serve a cultural role today, particularly for Aboriginal Australians. Some New Age religions and spirituality movements around the world have now also adopted the Rainbow Serpent as an icon. Similarly, the Rainbow Serpent can inspire social movements. Art historian Georges Petitjean has suggested that the identification of the Rainbow Serpent with various genders and sexualities helps to explain why the rainbow flag has been adopted as the symbol of lesbian, gay, bisexual, (although this is just speculation and quite possibly untrue). Politically, for example, the Rainbow Serpent was adopted as the symbol of an anti-uranium mining campaign in Australia, using the notion that the mining would disturb the Serpent and cause it to seek revenge as a metaphor for environmental destruction.
Rainbow Serpent : Australian Aboriginal mythology § Rainbow Serpent Serpent (symbolism) Eingana Wirnpa
Rainbow Serpent : A Rainbow Serpent myth accompanying Jimmy Njiminjuma bark painting Accessed 8 July 2008 Dreamtime Stories:The Rainbow Serpent Explaining Northern Land Council's use of the Rainbow Serpent in its logo Accessed 8 July 2008 First Australians television series Archived 11 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine Accessed 29 April 2013 The Trails of the Rainbow Serpents short film Accessed 3 May 2013
Ryūjin : Ryūjin (龍神, lit. "Dragon God"), which in some traditions is equivalent to Ōwatatsumi, was the tutelary deity of the sea in Japanese mythology. In many versions Ryūjin had the ability to transform into a human shape. Many believed the god had knowledge on medicine and many considered him as the bringer of rain and thunder, Ryūjin is also the patron god (ujigami) of several family groups. This Japanese dragon, symbolizing the power of the ocean, had a large mouth. He is considered a good god and patron of Japan, since the Japanese population has for millennia lived off the bounty of the sea. Ryūjin is also credited with the challenge of a hurricane which sank the Mongolian flotilla sent by Kublai Khan. Ryūjin lived in Ryūgū-jō, his palace under the sea built out of red and white coral, from where he controlled the tides with magical tide jewels. Sea turtles, fish, jellyfish, snakes, and other sea creatures are often seen as Ryūjin's servants.
Ryūjin : Ryūjin was the father of the beautiful Toyotama-Hime goddess who married the hunter prince Hoori. The first Emperor of Japan, Emperor Jimmu, is said to have been a grandson of Otohime and Hoori's. Thus, Ryūjin is said to be one of the ancestors of the Japanese imperial dynasty.
Ryūjin : Ryūjin shinkō (竜神信仰, "dragon god faith") is a form of Shinto religious belief that worships dragons as water kami. It is connected with agricultural rituals, rain prayers, and the success of fishermen. The god has shrines across Japan and especially in rural areas where fishing and rains for agriculture are important for local communities.
Ryūjin : Ryūjin or Ryūo in art
Ryūjin : Ryūjin shinkō, Encyclopedia of Shinto Netsuke: masterpieces from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, an exhibition catalog from The Metropolitan Museum of Art (fully available online as PDF), which contains many representations of Ryūjin Media related to Ryūjin at Wikimedia Commons
Shenlong : Shenlong, (simplified Chinese: 神龙; traditional Chinese: 神龍; pinyin: shén lóng, literally "god dragon" or "divine dragon", Japanese: 神竜 Shinryū) is the spirit dragon from Chinese mythology who is the dragon god of the tempest and also a master of rain. He is of equal significance to other creatures such as Tianlong, the celestial dragon, Zhulong, the dragon of eruption, Qinglong, the azure dragon, and Yinglong, the responsive dragon. The spiritual dragon is azure-scaled and governs the storms, clouds, and rain, on which all agricultural life depends. Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese people would take great care to avoid offending him, for if he grew angry or felt neglected, the result was bad weather, drought, flood or thunderstorms. Despite this, Shenlong appears to signify a special rank in the splendid robes and regalia of Chinese emperors. He was also five-clawed, which was iconic of the imperial dragon. Chinese empires have admired shenlong for centuries through festivals.
Shenlong : Karl Shuker: Dragons. A Natural History. Simon & Schuster, New York 1995, ISBN 0-684-81443-9, p. 89
Taoroinai : Taoroinai (Manipuri: ꯇꯥꯎꯔꯣꯢꯅꯥꯢ) is a snake-like dragon in Meitei mythology and Sanamahism, the indigenous religion of Manipur. It lived in the land of the Moon. According to the Shakok Lamlen, the Kangla was constructed over the navel of Taoroinai.
Taoroinai : Pakhangba - Celestial Dragon Poubi Lai - Water Dragon Nongshaba - Dragon Lion == References ==
Teju Jagua : Teju Jagua is the first son of Tau and Kerana and one of the seven legendary monsters of Guaraní mythology. Because of the curse placed upon Tau by Arasy for raping Kerana, Tau's descendants were forever cursed to a deformed and monstrous appearance. Thus, the pair's first son was a huge lizard with seven dog-heads and eyes that shoot out fire. His seven dog-heads make any movement difficult. Some versions of the story say Teju Jagua has only one giant dog-head. But all versions agree that he has a limited ability to move around. His appearance was the most horrid of all the seven brothers. However, his ferocity was tempered by choice of Tupã. He was left calm and harmless. Still he was feared for his fiery gaze. He feeds on fruit and his brother Yasy Yateré gave him honey, his favorite food. He is considered the lord of the caves and protector of fruit. He is also mentioned as a brilliant protector of buried treasure. Its skin became shiny after rolling around in the gold and precious stones of Itapé.
Teju Jagua : COLMAN, Narciso R. (Rosicrán): Ñande Ypy Kuéra ("Nuestros antepasados"), 1929.
Ten Ten-Vilu : Ten Ten-Vilu or Trentren-Vilu (from Mapudungun: Trengtrengfilu; Trengtreng, a name, and filu, "snake") is the Mapuche god of earth and fertility (or goddess in some versions found in Chiloé); he has a generous spirit and is the protector of all life on Earth, and the flora and fauna and according to some Mapuche myths (later also found in Chiloé). This snake was a central figure in the origin of the Chiloean Archipelago. In Mapuche mythology, Ten Ten-Vilu is son of Antü (a Pillan spirit).
Ten Ten-Vilu : The legend tells that the son, or daughter (in other versions), of the spirit Pillan Antu wanted the power of his father. As punishment, his father transformed him into a serpent, which would become the divinity of all that is the earth. Ten Ten-Vilu, along with Kai Kai-Vilu, were the children of powerful spirits Antu and Pien-Pillan (Antu, father of Ten-Ten, and Pien-Pillan, father of Kai Kai), but they were ambitious and desired the power of their parents. They tried to obtain their power, and in punishment their parents transformed them into serpents. Kai Kai-Vilu became "the serpent god(dess) of the sea" and Ten Ten-Vilu "the serpent god(dess) of the earth".
Ten Ten-Vilu : Chilota mythology Mapuche mythology
Ten Ten-Vilu : Alberto Trivero (1999), Trentrenfilú, (in Spanish). Proyecto de Documentación Ñuke Mapu. Martinez Vilches, Oscar, Chiloe Misterioso (in Spanish). Pub. Ediciones de la Voz de Chiloe (circa 1998)
Tianlong : Tianlong (simplified Chinese: 天龙; traditional Chinese: 天龍; pinyin: tiānlóng; Wade–Giles: t'ien lung; lit. "heavenly dragon") is a flying dragon in Chinese mythology, a star in Chinese astrology, and a proper name.
Tianlong : The term tianlong combines tian 天 "heaven" and long 龍 "dragon". Since tian literally means "heaven; the heavens; sky" or figuratively "Heaven; God; gods", tianlong can denote "heavenly dragon; celestial dragon" or "holy dragon; divine dragon". Tianlong 天龍 is homophonous with another name in Chinese folklore. Tianlong 天聾 "Heavenly Deaf" (with the character long 聾 "deaf" combining the "ear radical" 耳 and a long 龍 phonetic element) and Diya 地啞 "Earthly Dumb" are legendary attendants to Wenchang Wang 文昌王, the patron deity of literature.
Tianlong : From originally denoting "heavenly dragon", Tianlong 天龍 semantically developed meanings as Buddhist "heavenly Nāgas" or "Devas and Nāgas", "centipede", and "proper names" of stars, people, and places.
Tianlong : Carr, Michael. 1990. "Chinese Dragon Names", Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area 13.2:87–189. Cleary, Thomas and J. C. Cleary. 1977. The Blue Cliff Record. Shambhala. Eberhard, Wolfram. 1968. The Local Cultures of South and East China. E. J. Brill. Mair, Victor H. 1990. Tao Te Ching: The Classic Book of Integrity and the Way, by Lao Tzu; an entirely new translation based on the recently discovered Ma-wang-tui manuscripts. Bantam Books. Read, Bernard E. 1934. "Chinese Materia Medica VII; Dragons and Snakes," Peking Natural History Bulletin 8.4:279–362. Visser, Marinus Willern de. 1913. The Dragon in China and Japan Archived 2016-12-25 at the Wayback Machine. J. Müller. Wilhelm, Richard and Cary F. Baynes. 1967. The I Ching or Book of Changes. Bollingen Series XIX, Princeton University Press. Yuan, Haiwang. 2006. The Magic Lotus Lantern and Other Tales from the Han Chinese. Libraries Unlimited.
Veles (god) : Veles, also known as Volos, is a major god of earth, waters, livestock, and the underworld in Slavic paganism. His mythology and powers are similar, though not identical, to those of (among other deities) Odin, Loki and Hermes. According to reconstruction by some researchers, he is the opponent of the supreme thunder god Perun.: 211–214 As such he probably has been imagined as a dragon, which in the belief of the pagan Slavs is a chimeric being resembling a cross between a bear and a snake that devours livestock.: 141 : 87, 88 His tree is the willow, while that of Perun is the oak. No direct accounts survive, but reconstructionists speculate that he may directly continue aspects of the Proto-Indo-European pantheon with the original deity Welnos.
Veles (god) : Veles is one of few Slavic gods for which evidence of offerings can be found in all Slavic nations. The Primary Chronicle, a historical record of the early Kievan Rus, is the earliest and most important record, mentioning a god named Volos several times. Here, Volos is mentioned as god of cattle and peasants, who will punish oath-breakers with diseases, the opposite of Perun who is described as a ruling god of war who punishes by death in battle. In the later half of the 10th century, Veles or Volos was one of seven gods whose statues Vladimir I of Kiev had erected in his city. It is very interesting that Veles' statue apparently did not stand next to others, on the hill where the prince's castle was, but lower in the city, in the marketplace. Not only does this indicate that Veles was connected with commerce, but it also shows that worship of Perun and Veles had to be kept separate: while it was proper for Perun's shrines to be built high, on the top of the hill, Veles' place was down, in the lowlands. A similar pattern can be observed among the South Slavs. Here the name of Veles appears only in toponyms, the best-known of which is the city of Veles in Macedonia, over which looms a hill of St. Elias the Thunderer. Also, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a part of Sarajevo is called Velešići and a mountain Velež near Mostar, Herzegovina. Other examples are Veles in Western Serbia, Velesnica on the Danube and Velestovo in Montenegro and also the township of Velestino (Βελεστίνο, today Φέρες), apparently bearing testimony to a Slavic layer in the settlement of Thessaly. Another debatable if not improbable example: 178 is the town of Volosko in Croatia, situated on the seashore under the peak of Mount Učka, nicknamed Perun. Among Western Slavs, the name can be principally found in 15th and 16th century Czech records, where it means either dragon or devil.
Veles (god) : Presumably it is not possible to conclusively determine a definite etymology for the name of the god Veles, though there are several Proto-Indo-European roots that are all closely related to the nature of Veles and his domains. Further complicating matters is the presence of Lithuanian vėlės, which Fraenkel claims is unrelated to the Slavic term. Moreover it remains to be determined what the original shape of the lemma was in early Slavic, which obfuscates its history and linguistic relationships. One possibility is that the name derives from the Proto-Indo-European root *wel-, meaning wool. This seems plausible, since in Slavic cosmology Veles in serpentine form is lying in a nest of black wool in the roots of the Tree of the World: 136, 154 and Veles is the shepherd of the dead. Volos is also the Russian and Ukrainian word for "hair" and Veles is hairy in his beastly form (bear, wolf). However, since the early 20th century, since the advent of Proto-Indo-European laryngeal theory, the 'wool' word has been reconstructed as *h2wĺ̥h1neh2. The Proto-Indo-European root *welg- also means 'humid, wet'. Nothing is more connected with Veles than humidity and wetness. His domain is down, 'у воду пот корч пот колоду' ("in the water, below the tree stump and the log"). However, this etymology can be discounted as there is no velar in Veles. There is also the Indo-European word *woltus meaning 'meadow' which is derived from the same root. Accordingly, Veles is the shepherd of the dead who was imagined to browse the deceased on green lush meadows in the underworld.: 171 The name is also related to Slavic terminology for oxen, for which the South Slavs, Russians, and Poles use "вол/vol/wół". Volos can also be a derivation from the same root by Eastern Slavic phonetic laws, now considered the most probable explanation for this phonetic form.: 171 Veles is presumed to be or to represent the same figure as Vala, the enemy of the Vedic thunder god Indra. Other scholarship suggests a closer connection to characters of Baltic mythology, such as Velnias, Velns (Latvian) or Vėlinas (Lithuanian), a devil-like entity and enemy of the Baltic thunder-god Perkūnas (cf. Slavic Perun). Scholar Marija Gimbutas cited "related" etymons: Lithuanian veles 'shades of the dead' and Latvian Vels 'god of the underworld', which seem to indicate Veles's connection to the underworld. An ancient Russian word, Vlasezhelische, probably refers to the place where Veles dwells, "the underground kingdom or an entrance to it".
Veles (god) : The Russian philologists Vyacheslav Ivanov and Vladimir Toporov reconstructed the mythical battle of Perun and Veles through comparative study of various Indo-European mythologies and a large number of Slavic folk stories and songs. A unifying characteristic of all Indo-European mythologies is a story about a battle between a god of thunder and a huge serpent or a dragon. In the Slavic version of the myth, Perun is a god of thunder while Veles acts as a dragon who opposes him, consistent with the Vala etymology; he is also similar to the Etruscan underworld monster Vetha and to the dragon Illuyankas, enemy of the storm god of Hittite mythology. The reason for the enmity between the two gods is Veles's theft of Perun's son, wife, or, usually, cattle. It is also an act of challenge: Veles, in the form of a huge serpent, slithers from the caves of the underworld and coils up the Slavic world tree towards Perun's heavenly domain. Perun retaliates and attacks Veles with his lightning bolts. Veles flees, hiding or transforming himself into trees, animals or people. In the end, he is killed by Perun and in this ritual death, whatever Veles stole is released from his battered body in the form of rain falling from the skies. This "storm myth", or "divine battle", as it is generally called by scholars today, explained to ancient Slavs the changing of seasons through the year. The dry periods were interpreted as the chaotic results of Veles' thievery. Storms and lightning were seen as divine battles. The ensuing rain was the triumph of Perun over Veles and the re-establishment of world order. On a deeper level, as has been said above, Perun's place is up, high and dry and Veles' down, low and wet. By climbing up into the sphere of Perun, Veles disrupts the equilibrium of the world and needs to be put in his place. Perun achieves this in a fierce battle, smiting his adversary with lightning and driving him back down into his proper place, the watery realm lying beneath the roots of the cosmic tree (axis mundi). Order thus restored, the two gods cease hostilities until the next time that Veles tries to crawl up into Perun's realm. The myth was cyclical, repeating itself each year. The death of Veles was never permanent; he would reform himself as a serpent who would shed its old skin and would be reborn in a new body. Although in this particular myth he plays a negative role as bringer of chaos, Veles was not seen as an evil god by ancient Slavs. In fact, in many of the Russian folk tales, Veles, appearing under the Christian guise of St. Nicholas, saves the poor farmer and his cattle from the furious and destructive St. Elias the Thunderer, who represents Perun. The duality and conflict of Perun and Veles does not represent the dualistic clash of good and evil; rather, it is the opposition of the natural principles of earth and water (Veles) against heaven/sky and fire (Perun). The Ivanov/Toporov conception of "the key myth" of Slavic mythology has been criticized by several authors, including Leo Klejn and Igor M. Diakonoff. Many, including Klejn, pointed out that Ivanov and Toporov often tended toward unjustified generalizations and considered many of their arguments "far-fetched". Supporters of the theory, on the other hand, include Boris Uspensky, T. Sudnik and T. Tsivyan, and others.
Veles (god) : According to Ivanov and Toporov, Veles' portrayal as having a penchant for mischief is evident both from his role in the storm myth and in carnival customs of Koledari shamans. In his role as a trickster god, he is in some ways similar to both Greek Hermes and Scandinavian Loki. He was connected with magic. The word volhov, obviously derived from his name, in some Slavic languages still means sorcerer while in the 12th century Ruthenian epic The Tale of Igor's Campaign, the character of Boyan the wizard is called Veles' grandson. Veles was also believed to be protector of travelling musicians. For instance, in some wedding ceremonies of northern Croatia (which continued up to the 20th century), the music would not start playing unless the bridegroom, when making a toast, spilled some of the wine on the ground, preferably over the roots of the nearest tree. The symbolism of this is clear, even though forgotten long ago by those still performing it: the musicians will not sing until a toast is made to their patron deity.
Veles (god) : After the advent of Christianity, Veles was split into several different characters. As a god of the underworld and dragons, he became identified with the Devil. His more benevolent sides were transformed to several Christian saints. As a protector of cattle, he became associated with Saint Blaise, popularly known among various Slavic nations as St. Vlaho, St. Blaz, or St. Vlasiy (Armenian: Սուրբ Վլասի; germ: Blasius; fr: Blaise; sp: San Blas; port: São Brás; it: San Biagio; Croat: sv. Blaž; eng: Blase; Greek: Άγιος Βλάσιος). In Yaroslavl, for example, the first church built on the site of Veles's pagan shrine was dedicated to St Blaise, for the latter's name was similar to Veles and he was likewise considered a heavenly patron of shepherds. As mentioned already, in many Eastern Slavic folk tales, he was replaced by St. Nicholas, probably because the popular stories of the saint describe him as a giver of wealth and a sort of trickster.
Veles (god) : Veles Bastion on Brabant Island, Antarctica is named after the deity. Velež Mountain in Herzegovina Veles, North Macedonia, a town in North Macedonia Velestovo, Montenegro, a village in Montenegro Velestovo, Ohrid, a village in North Macedonia Volosko, a village in Croatia
Veles (god) : Chaoskampf, the battle between Indo-European thunder gods and their chaotic serpentine opponents Jormungandr, the world-serpent of Norse mythology Typhon, primordial serpent of Greco-Roman mythology Vritra, brother of Vala in Hindu myth and enemy of Indra; he steals Usas, the rivers/waters, and cattle, which Indra must free Book of Veles
Veles (god) : Biezais, Haralds. "Geschichte Und Struktur Der Balto-slavischen Religion". In: Anthropos 81, no. 1/3 (1986): 151–76. Accessed May 4, 2021. http://www.jstor.org/stable/40462030. Borenović, Mirjana. "René Girard’s Scapegoating and Stereotypes of Persecution in the Divine Battle between Veles and Perun". In: Bogoslovni vestnik [Theological Quarterly] 79 (2019) 4. pp. 1039–1052. DOI: https://doi.org/10.34291/BV2019/04/Borenovic Ivanković, M. "New Insights on Slavic God Volosъ / Velesъ from a Vedic Perspective" [Novi uvidi o staroslovenskom bogu Volosu / Velesu iz vedske perspektive]. In: Studia Mythologica Slavica 22: 55–81. Available from: https://ojs.zrc-sazu.si/sms/article/view/7597 Kropej, Monika (2003). “Cosmology and Deities in Slovene Folk Narrative and Song Tradition" [Kozmologija in boštva V Slovenskem Ljudskem Pripovednem in pesniškem izročilu]". In: Studia Mythologica Slavica 6 (May). Ljubljana, Slovenija, 131-134. https://doi.org/10.3986/sms.v6i0.1780. Łuczyński, Michał. 2012. “Kognitywna Definicja Welesa~Wołosa: Etnolingwistyczna próba Rekonstrukcji Fragmentu słowiańskiego Tradycyjnego Mitologicznego Obrazu świata" [Cognitive Definition of Weles~Wołos: An Attempt at Reconstruction of a Fragment of the Traditional Mythological Appearance of the Slavic World]. Studia Mythologica Slavica 15 (1). Ljubljana, Slovenija, 169–78. https://doi.org/10.3986/sms.v15i1.1581. Lyle, Emily. "Indo-European Time and the Perun-Veles Combat". In: Studia Mythologica Slavica XII. 2009. pp. 147–152.
Veles (god) : Media related to Veles (god) at Wikimedia Commons
Watatsumi : Watatsumi (海神, 綿津見) [watatsɯmi], also pronounced Wadatsumi, is a legendary kami (神, god; deity; spirit), Japanese dragon and tutelary water deity in Japanese mythology. Ōwatatsumi no kami (大綿津見神, "great deity of the sea") is believed to be another name for the sea deity Ryūjin (龍神, Dragon God) and also for the Watatsumi Sanjin (綿津見三神, "Three Watatsumi gods"), which rule the upper, middle and lower seas respectively and were created when Izanagi was washing himself of the dragons blood when he returned from Yomi, "the underworld".
Watatsumi : The earliest written sources of Old Japanese transcribe the name of the sea god in a diverse manner. The c. 712 CE Kojiki (tr. Basil Hall Chamberlain 1883) writes it semantically as 海神 lit. "sea god" and transcribes it phonetically with man'yōgana as Wata-tsu-mi, 綿津見, lit. "cotton port see" in identifying Ōwatsumi kami and the Watatsumi Sanjin. The c. 720 CE Nihongi (tr. William George Aston 1896) also writes Watatsumi as 海神 "sea god", along with 海童 "sea child" and 少童命 "small child lords" for the Watatsumi Sanjin. In the modern Japanese writing system, the name Watatsumi is usually written either in katakana as ワタツミ or in kanji phonetically 綿津見 or semantically 海神 "sea god". Note that in addition to reading 海神 as watatsumi, wata no kami or unagami in native Japanese kun'yomi pronunciation, it is also read kaijin or kaishin in Sino-Japanese on'yomi (from Chinese haishen, 海神, "sea god"). The original Watatsumi meaning "tutelary deity of the sea" is semantically extended as a synecdoche or metaphor meaning "the sea; the ocean; the main". The etymology of the sea god Watatsumi is uncertain. Marinus Willem de Visser (1913:137) notes consensus that wata is an Old Japanese word for "sea; ocean" and tsu is a possessive particle, but disagreement whether mi means "snake" or "lord; god". "It is not impossible" he concludes, "that the old Japanese sea-gods were snakes or dragons." Compare the Japanese rain god Kuraokami that was similarly described as a giant snake or a dragon. The comparative linguist Paul K. Benedict proposed (1990:236–7) that Japanese wata, 海, "sea" derives from Proto-Austronesian *wacal, "sea; open sea".
Watatsumi : The Kojiki version of the Japanese creation myth honorifically refers to Watatsumi 海神 with the name Ōwatatsumi kami 大綿津見神 "Great Watatsumi god". Compare this sea god with mountain god named Ohoyamatsumi 大山積. The world-creating siblings Izanagi and Izanami first give birth to the Japanese islands (kuniumi) and then to the gods (kamiumi). When they had finished giving birth to countries, they began afresh giving birth to Deities. So the name of the Deity they gave birth to was the Deity Great-Male-of-the-Great-Thing; next they gave birth to the Deity Rock-Earth-Prince; next they gave birth to the Deity Rock-Nest-Princess; next they gave birth to the Deity Great-Door-Sun-Youth; next they gave birth to the Deity Heavenly-Blowing-Male; next they gave birth to the Deity Great-House-Prince; next they gave birth to the Deity Youth-of-the-Wind-Breath-the-Great-Male; next they gave birth to the Sea-Deity, whose name is the Deity Great-Ocean-Possessor; next they gave birth to the Deity of the Water-Gates, whose name is the Deity Prince-of-Swift-Autumn; next they gave birth to his younger sister the Deity Princess-of-Swift-Autumn. (tr. Chamberlain 1919:28) Chamberlain (1919:30) explains mochi 持ち "having; taking; holding; grasping; owning" behind translating Ōwatsumi kami as "Deity Great-Ocean-Possessor", "The interpretation of mochi, "possessor," though not absolutely sure, has for it the weight both of authority and of likelihood." A subsequent Kojiki passage describes Watatsumi's daughter Otohime and her human husband Hoori living with the sea god. After Hoori lost his brother Hoderi's fishhook, he went searching to the bottom of the sea, where he met and married the dragon goddess Otohime. They lived in the sea god's underwater palace Ryūgū-jō for three years before Hoori became homesick. So he dwelt in that land for three years. Hereupon His Augustness Fire-Subside thought of what had gone before, and heaved one deep sigh. So Her Augustness Luxuriant-Jewel-Princess, hearing the sigh, informed her father, saying: "Though he has dwelt three years [with us], he had never sighed; but this night he heaved one deep sigh. What may be the cause of it?" The Great Deity her father asked his son-in-law saying: "This morning I heard my daughter speak, saying: 'Though he has dwelt three years [with us], he had never sighed; but this night he heaved one deep sigh.' What may the cause be? Moreover what was the cause of thy coming here?" Then [His Augustness Fire-Subside] told the Great Deity exactly how his elder brother had pressed him for the lost fish-hook. Thereupon the Sea-Deity summoned together all the fishes of the sea, great and small, and asked them, saying: "Is there perchance any fish that has taken this fish-hook?" So all the fishes replied: "Lately the tahi has complained of something sticking in its throat preventing it from eating; so it doubtless has taken [the hook]." On the throat of the tahi being thereupon examined, there was the fish-hook [in it]. Being forthwith taken, it was washed and respectfully presented to His Augustness Fire-Subside, whom the Deity Great-Ocean-Possessor then instructed. (tr. Chamberlain 1919:149) Watatsumi instructs Hoori how to deal with Hoderi, and chooses another mythic Japanese dragon, a wani "crocodile" or "shark", to transport his daughter and son in law back to land. Two Nihongi contexts refer to Watatsumi in legends about Emperor Keikō and Emperor Jimmu. First, the army of Emperor Keikō encounters Hashirimizu 馳水 "running waters" crossing from Sagami Province to Kazusa Province. The calamity is attributed to the Watatsumi 海神 "sea god" and placated through human sacrifice. Next he marched on to Sagami, whence he desired to proceed to Kadzusa. Looking over the sea, he spake with a loud voice, and said: "This is but a little sea: one might even jump over it." But, when he came to the middle of the sea a storm suddenly arose, and the Prince's ship was tossed about, so that he could not cross over. At this time there was a concubine in the Prince's suite, named Oto-tachibana-hime. She was the daughter of Oshiyama no Sukune of the Hodzumi House. She addressed the Prince, saying: "This present uprising of the winds and rushing of the waves, so that the Prince's ship is like to sink, must be due to the wishes of the God of the Sea. I pray thee let me go into the sea, and so let the person of thy mean handmaiden be given to redeem the life of the Prince's Augustness." Having finished speaking, she plunged into the billows. The storm forthwith ceased, and the ship was enabled to reach the shore. Therefore the people of that time called that sea Hashiri-midzu. (tr. Aston 1896:206) Second, the genealogy of Emperor Jimmu claims descent from the goddess Toyotama-hime, the daughter of Hori and Otohime, who is identified as the daughter of Watatsumi 海童. The Emperor Kami Yamato Ihare-biko's personal name was Hiko-hoho-demi. He was the fourth child of Hiko-nagisa-takeu-gaya-fuki-ahezu no Mikoto. His mother's name was Tamayori-hime, daughter of the Sea-God. From his birth, this Emperor was of clear intelligence and resolute will. (tr. Aston 1896:109-110) There is uncertainty whether Nihongi scribes wrote tsumi with dō 童 "child; boy" simply for pronunciation or for some semantic significance.
Watatsumi : When Izanagi's sister-wife dies giving birth to the fire god Kagu-tsuchi, his destroying it creates various deities, including the snow dragon Kuraokami. After Izanagi goes to the underworld in a futile attempt to bring Izanami back to life, he returns to the world and undergoes ritual purifications to cleanse himself of hellish filth. He creates 12 deities from his garments and belongings and 14 (including the 3 Watatsumis) from bathing himself. With the tsu 津 in these three dragon names being read as the genitive particle "of", they rule different water depths in the sea, soko 底 "bottom; underneath", naka 中 "middle; center", and uwa 上 "above; top" (Kojiki) or uwa 表 "surface; top" (Nihongi). Chamberlain (1919:48) notes, "There is the usual doubt as to the signification to be assigned to the syllable tsu in the second, fourth and last of these names. If it really means, not "elder" but "possessor," we should be obliged to translate by "the Bottom-Possessing-Male," etc." The earlier Kojiki version of the "Three Watatsumi Gods" calls them Wakatsumikami 綿津見神 "Wakatsumi gods": Sokotsu Watatsumikami 底津, Nakatsu Watatsumikami 中津綿津見神, and Uwatsu Watatsumikami 上津綿津見神. Thereupon saying: "The water in the upper reach is [too] rapid; the water in the lower reach is [too] sluggish," he went down and plunged in the middle reach; and, as he washed, there was first born the Wondrous-Deity-of-Eighty-Evils, and next the Wondrous-Deity-of-Great-Evils. These two Deities are the Deities that were born from the filth [he contracted] when he went to that polluted, hideous land. The names of the Deities that were next born to rectify those evils were: the Divine-Rectifying-Wondrous Deity, next the Great-Rectifying-Wondrous-Deity, next the Female-Deity-Idzu. The names of the Deities that were next born, as he bathed at the bottom of the water, were: the Deity Possessor-of-the-Ocean-Bottom, and next His Augustness Elder-Male-of-the-Bottom. The names of the Deities that were born as he bathed in the middle [of the water] were: the Deity Possessor-of-the-Ocean-Middle, and next His Augustness Elder-Male-of-the-Middle. The names of the Deities that were born as he bathed at the top of the water were the Deity Possessor-of-the-Ocean-Surface, and next His Augustness Elder-Male-of-the-Surface. These three Ocean-Possessing Deities are the Deities held in reverence as their ancestral Deities by the Chiefs of Adzumi. So the Chiefs of Adzumi are the descendants of His Augustness Utsushi-hi-gana-saku, a child of these Ocean-Possessing Deities. These three Deities His Augustness Elder-Male-of-the-Bottom, His Augustness Elder-Male-of-the-Middle, and His Augustness Elder-Male-of-the-Surface are the three Great Deities of the Inlet of Sumi. (tr. Chamberlain 1919:45-46) The later Nihongi version describes the "Three Watatsumi Gods" as Watatsumi Mikoto 少童命 "small child lords": Sokotsu Watatsumi Mikoto 底津少童命, Nakatsu Watatsumi Mikoto 中津少童命, and Uwatsu Watatsumi Mikoto 表津少童命. These Watatsumis are paired with three O Mikoto 男命 "male lords". Moreover, the Deities which were produced by his plunging down and washing in the bottom of the sea were called Soko-tsu-wata-tsu-mi no Mikoto and Sokotsutsu-wo no Mikoto. Moreover, when he plunged and washed in the mid-tide, there were Gods produced who were called Naka I tsu wata-dzu-mi no Mikoto, and next Naka-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto. Moreover, when he washed floating on the surface of the water, Gods were produced, who were called Uha-tsu-wata-dzu-mi no Mikoto and next Uhai-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto. There were in all nine Gods. The Gods Soko-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto, Naka-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto, and Soko-tsutsu-wo no Mikoto are the three great Gods of Suminoye. The Gods Soko-tsu-wata-dzu-mi no Mikoto, Naka-tsu-wata-dzu-mi no Mikoto, and Uha-tsu-wata-dzu-mi no Mikoto are the Gods worshipped by the Muraji of Adzumi. (tr. Aston 1896:27) Aston notes translations of "Bottom-sea-of-body", "Middle-sea-god", and "upper".
Watatsumi : There are numerous Shinto shrines dedicated to the sea god Watatsumi. Some examples include the Ōwatatsumi jinja or Daikai jinja 大海神社 in Sumiyoshi-ku, Osaka (associated with the Sumiyoshi Taisha shrine), the Watatsumi Shrine 海神社 in Tarumi-ku, Kobe, and the Watatsumi jinja 綿都美神社 in Kokura Minami-ku, Kitakyūshū. Shikaumi Shrine in Fukuoka Kaijin Shrine at Tsushima
Watatsumi : Aston, William George, tr. 1896. Nihongi: Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Times to A.D. 697. 2 vols. Kegan Paul. Benedict, Paul K. 1990. Japanese/Austro-Tai. Karoma. Chamberlain, Basil H., tr. 1919. The Kojiki, Records of Ancient Matters. Asiatic Society of Japan. Visser, Marinus Willem de. 1913. The Dragon in China and Japan. J. Müller. Yamanouchi, Midori and Joseph L. Quinn, trs. 2000. Listen to the Voices from the Sea: Writings of the Fallen Japanese Students (Kike Wadatsumi no Koe). University of Scranton Press.
Watatsumi : Watatsumi, Encyclopedia of Shinto
Yinglong : Yinglong (simplified Chinese: 应龙; traditional Chinese: 應龍; pinyin: yìnglóng; lit. 'responsive dragon') is a winged dragon and rain deity in ancient Chinese mythology.
Yinglong : This legendary creature's name combines yìng 應 "respond; correspond; answer; reply; agree; comply; consent; promise; adapt; apply" and lóng 龍 "Chinese dragon". Although the former character is also pronounced (with a different tone) yīng 應 "should; ought to; need to; proper; suitable", yinglong 應龍 definitively means "responsive dragon; responding dragon" and not "proper dragon".
Yinglong : The Chinese classics frequently mention yinglong 應龍 "a winged rain-dragon" in myths about the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, especially the Yellow Emperor and his alleged descendant King Yu. The examples below, limited to books with English translations, are roughly arranged in chronological order, although some heterogeneous texts have uncertain dates of composition.
Yinglong : The yinglong mythically relates with other Chinese flying dragons and rain deities such as the tianlong ("heavenly dragon"), feilong ("flying dragon"), hong ("rainbow dragon"), and jiao ("flood dragon").
Yinglong : Ames (1981). BEST GUESS. Felix Guirand, ed. (1981). New Larousse encyclopedia of mythology. Translated by Richard Aldington; Delano Ames. London: Hamlyn Publishing. OCLC 470906897, OCLC 558929021, OCLC 748984583. The Classic of Mountains and Seas. Translated by Birrell, Anne. Penguin. 2000. Le Blanc, Charles (1985). Huai nan tzu; Philosophical Synthesis in Early Han Thought: The Idea of Resonance (Kan-ying) With a Translation and Analysis of Chapter Six. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press. Carr, Michael (1990). "Chinese Dragon Names" (PDF). Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area. 13 (2): 87–189. Eberhard, Wolfram (1968). The Local Cultures of South and East China. E. J. Brill. Groot, J.J.M. de (1910). The Religious System of China. Vol. 6. E. J. Brill. The Songs of the South: An Anthology of Ancient Chinese Poems by Qu Yuan and Other Poets. Translated by Hawkes, David. Penguin. 1985. Karlgren, Bernhard (1946). "Legends and Cults in Ancient China". Bulletin of the Museum of Far Eastern Antiquities. 18: 199–365. Major, John S. (1993). Heaven and Earth in Early Han Thought: Chapters Three, Four, and Five of the Huainanzi. SUNY Press. Porter, Deborah Lynn (1996). From Deluge to Discourse: Myth, History, and the Generation of Chinese Fiction. SUNY. Schiffeler, John W. (1978). The Legendary Creatures of the Shan hai ching. Hwa Kang. Visser, Marinus Willern de (1913). The Dragon in China and Japan. J. Müller.
Yinglong : More about Yinglong
Zhulong (mythology) : Zhulong or Zhuyin , also known in English as the Torch Dragon, was a giant red solar dragon and god in Chinese mythology. It supposedly had a human's face and snake's body, created day and night by opening and closing its eyes, and created seasonal winds by breathing.
Zhulong (mythology) : The key word in the names "Zhuyin" and "Zhulong" is 燭, pronounced zhú in present-day Mandarin. It describes the act of "shining" or "illuminating" something but, owing to the nature of Chinese grammar, can function as a verb ("to shine", "to illuminate"), an adjective ("shining", "bright"), or a noun ("light", "illumination", an object which illuminates) depending upon its position in a phrase. For example, the Chinese word for "candle" is 蠟燭 (làzhú) or "wax-zhú"; an older word for "lantern" is 燭籠 (zhúlóng) or "zhú-basket". In the name Zhulong, the zhú modifies the noun 龍 (lóng) and thus intends a "shining", "torch-like", or "torch-bearing" Chinese dragon. and others call him "Torch Dragon", since he is described in some of the classic texts as carrying a torch. In the name Zhuyin, the zhú sits beside the noun 陰 (yīn), which describes both regular darkness and the feminine principle of the yin-yang, with an implicit conjunction between them. The zhú can also be rendered as an attributive, as in Birrell's "Torch Shade", or as an agent, as Visser's "Enlightener of the Darkness". In the Chu Ci, Zhulong is also rendered as Chuolong, which can variously mean "Distant" or "Quarrelsome Dragon", and as Zhuolong, variously "Outstanding" or "Departed Dragon". According to present reconstructions, these variant characters 逴 (now chuò) and 趠 (now zhuó) sounded closer to the pronunciation of 燭 in old Chinese, although not homophonous.
Zhulong (mythology) : The names "Zhuyin" and "Zhulong" appear in classic Chinese texts from the Han (3rd century BCE – 3rd century CE) that record the myths of the Zhou (12th–3rd century BCE).
Zhulong (mythology) : Zhulong or Zhuyin was not the only serpent-bodied celestial deity in Chinese folklore. Other examples include Pangu, Fuxi, Nüwa and Gonggong. Major describes the Torch Dragon as "well-known in early Chinese mythology" and suggests it is probably "a mythical interpretation of the aurora borealis". Others consider it to embody sunlight. Carr cites a Chinese-language article by Kwang-chih Chang characterizing it with the Eastern Zhou "Transformation Thesis" that natural elements transform out of the bodily parts of mythical creatures.
Zhulong (mythology) : 472235 Zhulong, a resonant trans-Neptunian object discovered by the Pan-STARRS survey in 2014, was named after the mythological creature. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 27 August 2019 (M.P.C. 115895).
Zhulong (mythology) : Eberhard, Wolfram. 1968. The Local Cultures of South and East China. E. J. Brill.
Zhulong (mythology) : 燭龍, 中國上古神話 (in Chinese)
Lists of dragons : This is a list of lists of dragons. List of dragons in mythology and folklore Dragons in Greek mythology Germanic dragon Slavic dragon European dragon Chinese dragon Japanese dragon Korean dragon List of dragons in popular culture List of dragons in film and television List of dragons in games List of dragons in literature
Lists of dragons : List of fictional species
List of dragons in mythology and folklore : This is a list of dragons in mythology and folklore.
List of dragons in mythology and folklore : Azazel from the Abrahamic religions, is described as a dragon in the Apocalypse of Abraham. Sea serpent, a water dragon found in mythology and legends throughout the world. The unnamed five-headed dragon subdued by the Buddhist goddess Benzaiten at Enoshima in Japan in A.D. 552 The unnamed dragon defeated by Saint George. Cockatrice, a two-legged dragon or serpent-like creature with a rooster's head. Basilisk, a legendary reptile reputed to be a serpent king, who can cause death with a single glance.
List of dragons in mythology and folklore : Dragons in Manipuri mythology List of dragons in literature List of dragons in popular culture
List of dragons in mythology and folklore : Barber, Elizabeth Wayland, and Paul T. Barber. "Fire-Breathing Dragons." In When They Severed Earth from Sky: How the Human Mind Shapes Myth, 231–44. PRINCETON; OXFORD: Princeton University Press, 2004. doi:10.2307/j.ctt7rt69.22. Blust, Robert. "The Origin of Dragons." Anthropos 95, no. 2 (2000): 519–36. www.jstor.org/stable/40465957. Stein, Ruth M. "The Changing Styles in Dragons—from Fáfnir to Smaug." Elementary English 45, no. 2 (1968): 179–89. www.jstor.org/stable/41386292.
Dragons in Greek mythology : Dragons play a significant role in Greek mythology. Though the Greek drakōn often differs from the modern Western conception of a dragon, it is both the etymological origin of the modern term and the source of many surviving Indo-European myths and legends about dragons.
Dragons in Greek mythology : The word dragon derives from the Greek δράκων (drakōn) and its Latin cognate draco. Ancient Greeks applied the term to large, constricting snakes. The Greek drakōn was far more associated with poisonous spit or breath than the modern Western dragon, though fiery breath is still attested in a few myths. There is also the drakaina, the specifically female form or "she-dragon." The drakaina is occasionally treated differently from the more common masculine or gender-neutral drakōn, often surviving by mating with a hero or being the ancestress of an important lineage. Daniel Ogden speaks of three ways to explain the origins of Greek dragon myths: as vertical evolution from (reconstructed) Proto-Indo-European mythology, as horizontal adaptation from Ancient Near Eastern mythology, or as sitting within "the cloud of international folktale". Regarding theories of horizontal transmission, Ogden argues that they carry "an unspoken assumption that prior to such a transfer the Greeks' own myth-world was a tabula rasa", which he calls absurd; only Typhon's Near Eastern origins are, in his view, plausible.
Dragons in Greek mythology : European dragon Drakaina Dragons in Manipuri mythology
Dragons in Greek mythology : Media related to Dragons (Greek mythology) at Wikimedia Commons Theoi Project – Drakon Hesperios
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : A Song of Ice and Fire, the series of fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin, has formed the basis of several works in different media.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : The first issue of the comic book adaptation of the first novel, A Game of Thrones, by fantasy author Daniel Abraham and artist Tommy Patterson, was published by Dynamite Entertainment in September 2011. The series is set to run for 24 issues and is intended to follow the story of the novel closely. The first six issues were published as a trade paperback in March 2012: Abraham, Daniel; Martin, George R.R. (2012). A Game of Thrones: The Graphic Novel: Volume One. Bantam Books. ISBN 978-0-440-42321-8.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : Thomas Dunne Books announced in August 2011 that it had acquired the rights to Game of Groans, a parody of Game of Thrones in the vein of Bored of the Rings, by the pseudonymous "George R.R. Costanza". The book was eventually published on March 27, 2012 by St. Martin's Griffin and credited to "George R.R. Washington" and Alan Goldsher: Washington, George R.R.; Goldsher, Alan (2012). A Game of Groans: A Sonnet of Slush and Soot. St. Martin's Griffin. ISBN 978-1-250-01126-8. In 2012, The Bad Dog Theatre Company adapted the novels as a four-hour improv comedy show in Toronto, titled Throne of Games. The fall 2012 ready-to-wear collection by the fashion brand Helmut Lang was inspired by Game of Thrones. In March 2012, Wiley-Blackwell published Game of Thrones and Philosophy: Logic Cuts Deeper than the Sword (ISBN 978-1-118-16199-9). This entry in Blackwell's Pop Culture and Philosophy series, edited by Henry Jacoby and William Irwin, aims to highlight and discuss philosophical issues raised by the show and its source material. In 2013, Game of Thrones was notably parodied on the cover of Mad on April 30, as well as by a web series, School of Thrones, which set the story in a high school whose students vie for the title of prom king and queen. The "One World Symphony" company announced, in 2014, a musical production based on television series including Game of Thrones. In 2015, the Under the Gun Theater of Chicago premiered Swarm of Spoilers, a parody show recapitulating the first four seasons of the TV series. In 2013, the animated comedy series South Park aired a three-part episode ("Black Friday", "A Song of Ass and Fire" and "Titties and Dragons") satirizing the U.S. custom of Black Friday in the form of a parody of Game of Thrones. Two pornographic parodies of the series were also announced in 2013. One of these, This Ain't Game of Thrones XXX, was released in 2014, produced by Hustler Video and directed by Axel Braun. The movie incorporates many of the main characters such as Jaime Lannister (Richie Calhoun), Jon Snow (Ryan Driller), Cersei Lannister (Brandi Love), Sansa Stark (Marie McCray), Daenerys Targaryen (Spencer Scott), Tyrion Lannister (Evan Stone), and Brienne of Tarth (Amanda Tate). In 2016 the parody recap series of Game of Thrones, called Gay of Thrones was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Short-Form Variety Series. In 2015, the inaugural American edition of Red Nose Day featured the comedy sketch Coldplay's Game of Thrones: The Musical, a mockumentary regarding a failed musical theatre adaptation of the television show by the British band Coldplay, featuring many castmembers of Game of Thrones such as Peter Dinklage, Kit Harington, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Emilia Clarke, Alfie Allen and Iwan Rheon. A parody titled Game of Thrones: The Musical, written by Basil Considine and developed by Really Spicy Opera, appeared at the Minnesota Fringe Festival in August 2016 and the 2017 Oahu and Maui Fringe Festivals and was rated a must-see by the St. Paul Pioneer Press.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : Greek black metal band Nocternity's guitarist's pseudonym is Khal Drogo and they recorded a song on 2003's Onyx CD called "Valyrian Steel (Blood Of The Dragon)" with lyrics directly referencing Daenerys' storyline and events. Swedish power metal band HammerFall released an album in 2005 titled Chapter V: Unbent, Unbowed, Unbroken, the family motto of House Martell. Tracks on the album such as "Take the Black", "Fury of the Wild", and "Hammer of Justice" directly reference events and characters. The following album Threshold also features a song inspired by A Song of Ice and Fire, titled "Dark Wings, Dark Words". Their 2014 album (r)Evolution also features two songs inspired by the series, titled "Winter Is Coming", the family motto of House Stark, and "Wildfire", a highly flammable liquid in the ASoIaF world, which burns with a green fire. The German symphonic metal band Blind Guardian have written two songs dedicated to the world of George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire. The songs are called "War of the Thrones" and "A Voice in the Dark" and are part of their 2010 At the Edge of Time album. British alternative rock band Dark Stares based their name on Ser Gerold Dayne, known as Darkstar. Their song "Blackfyre" from EP Octopon is a homage to House Blackfyre and the Blackfyre Rebellion. In 2012, the Canadian band Irish Moutarde adapted the song The Bear and the Maiden Fair, sung at various times in the novels, as a celtic punk rock song. The metal band, The Sword, has a song on the album Gods of the Earth called "To Take the Black" referencing the Night's Watch. American power metal band Last Alliance recorded an album called the Westeros Trilogy in 2013. == References ==
Black Friday (South Park) : "Black Friday" is the seventh episode in the seventeenth season of the American animated television series South Park. The 244th episode of the series overall, it premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on November 13, 2013. The episode is the first of a three-episode story arc, which continues with "A Song of Ass and Fire", and concludes with "Titties and Dragons". The plot, which employs themes and motifs from the TV series Game of Thrones, concerns the characters' anticipation of a Black Friday sale, with Randy Marsh taking a temporary job as a mall security guard to gain an advantage over the holiday shopping crowds, and the children of South Park split into two factions over whether to collectively purchase bargain-priced Xbox One or PlayStation 4 video game consoles to facilitate their online group gaming. This episode was submitted for, and received, a nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour) at the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards. The episode was rated TV-MA-LSV in the United States.
Black Friday (South Park) : The security management at South Park Mall briefs its guards on the upcoming Black Friday shopping day. The security captain, a grizzled veteran with a large scar running down his face, tells the guards that this year, the mall is offering an 80% discount to the first 30 people in the mall, which is certain to again incite violence among shoppers. Among the guards is Randy Marsh, who has taken the temporary job not to earn extra holiday money as he says, but to acquire the discounts ahead of the crowds that will camp outside the mall. Meanwhile, the boys of South Park are dressed in medieval garb while engaging in role playing inspired by Game of Thrones, and are themselves anticipating Black Friday. Cartman informs his classmates of the 80% discount, and says if they work together, they can all purchase one of the new gaming systems so that they can play online games together. The children, however, become split over whether to purchase Xbox Ones or PlayStation 4s. Kyle and Stan find themselves on opposite sides of the schism, with Kyle allied with Cartman's Xbox One faction, and Stan on the PS4 side. The two factions then begin recruiting other children to increase their ranks. Cartman, strolling through the "Garden of Andros" with Kenny, whose character is "Lady McCormick", tells him that they are only recruiting Xbox One loyalists to help them get inside the mall so they both can get cheap Xbox Ones. He wants Kenny to use his influence to "take care" of Kyle, should his loyalty to their faction falter. The garden is then revealed to be the elaborately landscaped back yard of an elderly South Park resident, who orders the children to stop trespassing on his property. This gag recurs throughout the three-part storyline, with Cartman playing different participants in the conflict against each other, only for the old man to inform them of this from his window, much to Cartman's irritation. The mall's security is further daunted by the news that a new Tickle Me Elmo called "Stop Touching Me Elmo" is being released in time for Black Friday, which leads to shoppers camping outside even earlier than anticipated. The head of Sony has also announced a special bundle to help entice customers to side with PS4. To address increasing crowds, the mall's security tries to hand out wristbands so shoppers can hold places in line, but this leads to a brawl in which the captain is fatally stabbed. Cradling his dying superior, Randy reveals his true motives for having taken the job. The captain notes that Randy now knows how serious Black Friday is, and peels off the scar over his left eye, revealing it to be a prosthetic appliance. Before dying, he places it on Randy's face, telling Randy that regardless of his early motives, he is the captain now, and must now protect the town. Inspired by the new responsibility, Randy tells his fellow guards that they now have work to do. At the same time, Stan rallies his assembled army, telling them that Lady McCormick has joined them to make sure that the winner of the console war is the PS4.
Black Friday (South Park) : From the beginning of season seventeen's production cycle, South Park co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone wanted to ensure that there was a two- or three-part storyline somewhere in this season because they have always enjoyed doing them as they allow for a different style of writing. They decided to actually start a multiple-episode storyline with this episode after coming off "Ginger Cow", which they felt could have easily been expanded into two or three episodes. The fact that "Ginger Cow" had to be compressed into the standard length of an episode left Parker and Stone wanting to doing something bigger even more. With four episodes left to be produced for this season, Parker and Stone contemplated making a four-part storyline but wrapped it up at three. As for what the three-part storyline would be about, Parker and Stone said that they had been talking about doing a Game of Thrones-themed episode for a long time since they both watched the show and found many things to satirize. Butters' scenes in the three episodes which centered on his understanding of Game of Thrones were the first jokes that were visualized by Parker and Stone as being one of the running gags; they also helped solidify Game of Thrones' role in the plot. Once they decided to center the episodes around Black Friday, the Game of Thrones angle became a great way to tie both stories together as Parker and Stone felt Black Friday was something that would really fit well in Game of Thrones. They soon felt that they were onto a big idea that would be received well by audiences. Before the Game of Thrones and Black Friday elements became part of the episode, the original premise of the storyline was focused on the large amount of cut content from South Park: The Stick of Truth, a video game which Parker and Stone were heavily involved in the development of. However, as the episode became more and more focused on Game of Thrones and Black Friday, the aspects which were lifted from the game were almost entirely scrapped.
Black Friday (South Park) : "Black Friday" received critical acclaim. Max Nicholson of IGN gave the episode a score of 8.7 out of 10, writing: "Cleverly fusing elements of the Next-Gen Console War with HBO's Game of Thrones, 'Black Friday' was easily one of the best South Park episodes we've seen in Season 17." Ryan McGee of The A.V. Club gave the episode an A−, praising the Game of Thrones parody, saying, "Why wrap Game of Thrones in all this? There's no real reason to do so, except that it's really amusing and offers up a great way to frame the overall narrative. What makes the approach really work is that 'Black Friday' is not a one-for-one parody so much as a thematic one."
Black Friday (South Park) : "Black Friday" Full episode at South Park Studios "Black Friday" at IMDb "Episode 1707 "Black Friday" Press Release". South Park Studios. November 10, 2013.
Game of Thrones : Game of Thrones is an American fantasy drama television series created by David Benioff and D. B. Weiss for HBO. It is an adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire, a series of fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin, the first of which is A Game of Thrones. The show premiered on HBO in the United States on April 17, 2011, and concluded on May 19, 2019, with 73 episodes broadcast over eight seasons. Set on the fictional continents of Westeros and Essos, Game of Thrones has a large ensemble cast and follows several story arcs throughout the course of the show. The first major arc concerns the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros through a web of political conflicts among the noble families either vying to claim the throne or fighting for independence from whoever sits on it. The second major arc focuses on the last descendant of the realm's deposed ruling dynasty, who has been exiled to Essos and is plotting to return and reclaim the throne. The third follows the Night's Watch, a military order defending the realm against threats from beyond the Seven Kingdoms' northern border. Game of Thrones attracted a record viewership on HBO and has a broad, active, and international fan base. Many critics and publications have named the show one of the greatest television series of all time. Critics have praised the series for its acting, complex characters, story, scope, and production values, although its frequent use of nudity and violence (including sexual violence) generated controversy. The final season received significant criticism for its reduced length and creative decisions, with many considering it a disappointing conclusion. The series received 59 Primetime Emmy Awards, the most by a drama series, including Outstanding Drama Series in 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019. Its other awards and nominations include three Hugo Awards for Best Dramatic Presentation, a Peabody Award, and five nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama. A prequel series, House of the Dragon, premiered on HBO in 2022. A second prequel currently in production, A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms, is scheduled to debut in 2025.
Game of Thrones : Official website Game of Thrones at IMDb Game of Thrones at Rotten Tomatoes
A Clash of Kings (comics) : A Clash of Kings is the comic book adaptation of George R. R. Martin's fantasy novel A Clash of Kings, the second in the A Song of Ice and Fire. It is a sequel to the comic book adaptation of A Game of Thrones.
A Clash of Kings (comics) : The comic book series is scripted by comic book writer Landry Walker and drawn by Mel Rubi, with covers by Rubi and by Mike S. Miller. It is intended to be a closer adaption of the novels. Following its first issue publication in 2017, at a rate of about a page of art for each page of text.
A Clash of Kings (comics) : Sixteen issues of A Clash of Kings were released from June 7, 2017 until the series went on hiatus in March 2019. In January 2020, new releases continued marketed as A Clash of Kings Part II, with the last issue published on November 24, 2021. The thirty-two issues of the series were also published in four compilation volumes, each one containing eight issues. The volumes were published from October 17, 2018, to October 2, 2022. Hardcover collections
A Clash of Kings (comics) : The series currently holds a score of 7.0 out of 10 on the review aggregator website Comic Book Roundup, based on 22 total reviews for the series' 31 published issues.
A Clash of Kings (comics) : George R.R. Martin's A Clash of Kings at Dynamite Entertainment George R.R. martin's A Clash of Kings Vol. 2 at Dynamite Entertainment
A Game of Thrones (comics) : A Game of Thrones is the comic book adaptation of George R. R. Martin's fantasy novel A Game of Thrones, the first in the A Song of Ice and Fire series. A sequel, A Clash of Kings, was announced in March 2017, based on the book of the same name.
A Game of Thrones (comics) : The comic book series was scripted by fantasy author Daniel Abraham and drawn by Tommy Patterson. It is intended to follow the story and atmosphere of the novel closely, at a rate of about a page of art for each page of text, and was projected to cover 24 issues of 29 pages each. George R.R. Martin advised Daniel Abraham on aspects of the adaptation. In an Ignite presentation of the series' development process, Abraham said that the major challenges in creating the adaptation were: how to convey the novel's substantial amount of exposition and dialogue in a manner appropriate to the medium, how to represent the novel's sex scenes involving 13-year-old Daenerys Targaryen in such a manner as not to risk being accused of child pornography under the U.S. PROTECT Act, producing the series in parallel to HBO's TV series, which visualizes the novel and its characters in a different manner not knowing what might become significant in the as-yet unwritten sixth and seventh novels in the Song of Ice and Fire series. For the second novel in the series, Landry Walker took over as writer while drawings were done by Mel Rubi.
A Game of Thrones (comics) : The initial issue was published by Dynamite Entertainment in September 2011. New issues are published at a rate of one per month. The first six issues were published as a trade paperback, marketed as a graphic novel, on 27 March 2012. It took first place on the New York Times best-seller list for graphic books the day after its publication. Hardcover collections
A Game of Thrones (comics) : The series currently holds a score of 6.4 out of 10 on the review aggregator website Comic Book Roundup, based on 26 total reviews for the series' 24 published issues. The highest-rated issue was #4, with a score of 9.6 derived from one review, while the lowest is issue #23, with a score of 2.0, also based on one review. Initial reviews of the adaptation were mixed. IGN rated the first issue as "passable", acknowledging the writing and art as competent, but considered the character design to be "overly pretty and slightly exaggerated" and the series as a whole to lack added value with respect to either the original novel or the HBO series. Weekly Comic Book Review gave the first issue a "B−", appreciating Patterson's art but finding the colors to be inappropriately bright and shiny. Broken Frontier reviewed the "enjoyable adaption" favorably, but asked for "a tighter focus on characters over plot points, and a more serious take on the art". While they appreciated Patterson's settings, they considered that his art dipped in quality when it came to facial expressions, making characters appear distracting and misshapen. Comic bloggers Geek of Doom praised the comic, concluding that it communicated the book's depth better than the TV series did. The Courier News's reviewer, on the other hand, dismissed the adaptation as presenting "a world filled with fantasy cliches, void of style and indistinguishable from any other mediocre book dubiously depicting the middle ages".
A Game of Thrones (comics) : George R.R. Martin's A Game of Thrones at Dynamite Entertainment Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine
A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms (TV series) : A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms is an upcoming American fantasy drama television series created by George R. R. Martin. A prequel to Game of Thrones (2011–2019), it is set to be the third television series in Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire franchise and uses his Tales of Dunk and Egg novellas as its basis. It stars Peter Claffey as Ser Duncan the Tall, the titular hedge knight, and Dexter Sol Ansell as Egg. The first season of the series will have six episodes to be released on HBO and Max in 2025.
The Rise of the Dragon : The Rise of the Dragon is a companion book by George R. R. Martin, Elio M. García Jr. and Linda Antonsson describing the history of House Targaryen from Aegon Targaryen's conquest of Westeros to the Dance of the Dragons civil war. It was released on October 25, 2022. In contrast to Fire & Blood, Martin described it as "written in a more encyclopedic style similar to The World of Ice & Fire".
The Rise of the Dragon : Official website of author George R. R. Martin
A Song of Ass and Fire : "A Song of Ass and Fire" is the eighth episode in the seventeenth season of the American animated television series South Park. The 245th episode of the series overall, it first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on November 20, 2013. The episode serves as a continuation of the previous episode, "Black Friday", in which the children of South Park, role-playing as characters from Game of Thrones, are split into two factions over whether to collectively purchase bargain-priced Xbox One or PlayStation 4 video game consoles at an upcoming Black Friday sale at the local mall, where Randy Marsh has been made the Captain of mall security. The story arc concludes with the following episode, "Titties and Dragons". The episode was rated TV-MA-LSV in the United States.
A Song of Ass and Fire : In continuation from the previous episode, the children of South Park are split into two factions over whether to purchase bargain-priced Xbox Ones or PlayStation 4s at an upcoming Black Friday sale at the South Park Mall. Kenny, role-playing as Lady McCormick, is revealed to have joined Stan's pro-PlayStation 4 faction because Cartman, who leads the pro-Xbox One faction, would not make him a princess. Meanwhile, as pre-Black Friday violence increases, the South Park Mall, where Randy Marsh has been made the Captain of security, announces that the early-shopper discount has been increased from 80% to 90%, leading to more shoppers gathering in front of the mall ahead of the sale. Cartman becomes increasingly agitated with the Xbox people's training following Kenny's betrayal, and informs a worried Kyle that he has a plan. Seeking an advantage to counter the PS4 faction's increasing ranks, Cartman contacts Microsoft, but CEO Steve Ballmer dismisses the importance of the children's conflict and the commercialization of the console wars. When Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates learns of this, he has Ballmer murdered in order to personally see to it that Xbox wins the console wars. Gates allies himself with Channel 9's Morning News correspondent Niles Lawson, promising that the Black Friday violence will ensure high ratings. Lawson, playing both sides of the conflict, then informs Sony's CEO of this during a post-coital discussion, and in response, the CEO gives Kenny a brooch that turns him into a Japanese princess. Cartman also sends Butters and Scott Malkinson to the New Mexico home of A Game of Thrones author George R. R. Martin for information on upcoming storylines, but Martin does nothing but regale the two children with plot points that emphasize male characters' penises. As Butters and Malkinson are about to leave, Martin tells them that he has connections with which he may be able to help their cause. Lawson then reports that the mall, on Martin's suggestion, has moved the Black Friday sale one week from November 29 to December 6, and is now offering 96% off purchases to the first 100 people inside the mall, an announcement that leads to a brawl outside the mall.
A Song of Ass and Fire : Series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone stated that they struggled when deciding where to take the plot next after establishing that this would be the second episode in a three-part story arc. Originally, the episode consisted almost entirely of each console side's leader recruiting recurring characters from all throughout the series' history to join their side; crab people and underpants gnomes among others made appearances before being cut. This premise was scrapped because Parker and Stone felt it wasn't enough like the content in Game of Thrones. The Japanese Princess Kenny sequence was taken directly from the video game South Park: The Stick of Truth, which Parker and Stone worked on.
A Song of Ass and Fire : Max Nicholson of IGN gave the episode a score of 8.4 out of 10, slightly lower than "Black Friday", saying: "Though not quite as strong as last week's Console War episode, 'A Song of Ass and Fire' was nevertheless entertaining and featured a number of great laugh-out-loud moments." Marcus Gilmer from The A.V. Club gave the episode an A−, writing that the last two episodes "prove there's still plenty of life left in the show". He wrote: "Among all of these bigger thematic elements are, of course, great jokes and gags: Cartman's 'wizard and a king' exchange with the Microsoft operator; the boys having to tilt Cartman to get him through the McCormick's [sic] doorway; George R. R. Martin torturing poor Butters by not letting the wiener thing go and promising the pizzas (or dragons) are on their way and will be amazing. And, of course, the great anime-aping segment." George R. R. Martin denied the insinuation made by his portrayal in the episode that he is obsessed with penises, saying, "I have to deny this as a scurrilous rumor. I have nothing against weenies, weenies are fine, but I am not obsessed with weenies. I am definitely on the boobies side of the equation. They picked the wrong equation for me. Boobies, not weenies."
A Song of Ass and Fire : "A Song of Ass and Fire" Full episode at South Park Studios "A Song of Ass and Fire" at IMDb "Episode 1708 'A Song of Ass and Fire' Press Release". South Park Studios. November 10, 2013.
Titties and Dragons : "Titties and Dragons" is the ninth episode in the seventeenth season of the American animated television series South Park. The 246th episode of the series overall, it premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on December 4, 2013. It is the conclusion of a three-episode story arc that began with "Black Friday", and continued with "A Song of Ass and Fire". The story centers upon the children of South Park, role-playing as characters from Game of Thrones, split into two factions over whether to collectively purchase bargain-priced Xbox One or PlayStation 4 video game consoles at an upcoming Black Friday sale at the local mall, where Randy Marsh has been made the Captain of mall security. The episode received critical acclaim.
Titties and Dragons : In the conclusion of a three-part storyline, the children of South Park are split into two factions over whether to purchase bargain-priced Microsoft Xbox Ones or Sony PlayStation 4s at an upcoming Black Friday sale at the South Park Mall, a schism that sees best friends Stan Marsh (PS4) and Kyle Broflovski (Xbox) on opposite sides. As the PS4 faction turn their attention to the Red Robin restaurant, which serves as a side entrance into the mall, the Xbox One faction arrives to announce they wish to join the PS4 ranks. Though Stan does not trust them, Cartman and Kyle say they have a way to monopolize the Red Robin: by renting it out for a wedding party. Cartman and Stan, who are having a private talk in the "Garden of Andros", are interrupted by the elderly owner, who informs Stan of the true intentions of the Xbox faction: they have merely feigned surrender in order to lock the PS4 faction in the Red Robin while they retrieve their consoles. Stan is further angered to be told that this was Kyle's idea. To prevent Stan from informing his allies of this, Cartman defecates in the old man's yard and frames Stan for it, resulting in Stan being grounded. When Kyle learns of this, he tries to explain his actions to Stan but he is promptly sent away. As Randy Marsh's mall security guards deal with the increasing shopper violence, George R. R. Martin arrives at the mall to cut the ribbon that will open the mall for the Black Friday sale. However, he stalls by regaling the agitated crowd with musings on his penis. The same impatient shopper that killed the captain charges forward, slices off Martin's penis, and cuts the ribbon, allowing the crowd into the mall, leading to mass deaths. In the Red Robin, Kyle, Kenny and their allies turn on Cartman and his faction, revealing that they are no longer Xbox supporters. The standoff is then interrupted by Bill Gates and the head of Sony. The Sony executive is brutally killed by Gates, who announces that Xbox is victorious. The children journey through the blood-and-corpse-covered mall to purchase their Xbox Ones. While playing with his new console, Cartman realizes that he wishes to play outside, saying that their improvised Game of Thrones role-playing over the past few weeks has been filled with so much drama, action and romance that they do not need Microsoft or Sony to have fun.
Titties and Dragons : As with the previous episode, the show's opening title sequence is modified to depict the characters in their role-playing garb, while the soundtrack has been altered to include the penis-themed chorus singing to the Game of Thrones opening theme introduced in the previous episode. Series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone said that they experimented with different styles of opening sequences before settling on the penis-themed chorus version; a Japanese Princess Kenny opening sequence was one of the original ideas.
Titties and Dragons : "Titties and Dragons" received widespread critical acclaim. Max Nicholson of IGN gave the episode a score of 9.0 out of 10, writing, "The final chapter of South Park's Black Friday trilogy finished strong, with plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, subtle commentary and genius satire. There were a few nitpicks—most of which were negligible—but overall, this week's episode proved that Matt and Trey can still dish out a satisfying multipart [sic] arc, with style." Marcus Gilmer of The A.V. Club gave the episode an "A−" rating, praising the "Red Robin Wedding", and said, "The show’s ability to inject a bit of soul is one of the best tricks the writers have pulled off regularly throughout the show's run. Beneath all the crude jokes and the potty humor, there's legitimate heart that manages to be genuine and self-aware without ever straying into the maudlin."
Titties and Dragons : "Titties and Dragons" Full episode at South Park Studios "Titties and Dragons" at IMDb "Episode 1709 "Titties and Dragons" Press Release". South Park Studios. December 1, 2013. Archived from the original on December 3, 2013. Retrieved January 2, 2021.
The World of Ice & Fire : The World of Ice & Fire: The Untold History of Westeros and the Game of Thrones is a companion book for George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire fantasy series. Written by Martin, Elio M. García Jr. and Linda Antonsson, it was published by Bantam on October 28, 2014. The 326-page volume is a fully illustrated "history compendium" of Martin's fictional world, written from the perspective of an in-world "Maester" and featuring newly written material, family trees, and extensive maps and artwork.
The World of Ice & Fire : The format of The World of Ice & Fire is intentionally a replication of a "real history book" in which sources can contradict each other. Martin worked closely with the artists to render the characters and locales as he himself imagined them, as opposed to how they may be portrayed in HBO's Game of Thrones series and other media, such as comic books and games. The book details the fictional history of the Seven Kingdoms, from the pre-historic Dawn Age up to just before the main book series.
The World of Ice & Fire : Elio García and Linda Antonsson head the A Song of Ice and Fire fansite Westeros.org. George R. R. Martin enlisted them in 2006 to assist with the project, which at the time he believed would be finished by 2008. García is a Martin "superfan" whom the author and HBO have consulted on details previously established by Martin in the series. The book's planned length was 50,000 words, but historical references collected by García and Antonsson from the books amounted to 70,000, and after Martin "polished it, expanded it and fill in the holes," it became 100,000 words. Martin also started writing "sidebar" stories for the book, but at one point, he realized he had written 350,000 more words. As this did not fit the original concept of a fully illustrated book—the number of illustrations remaining the same—Martin removed his sidebar stories, and the rest was abridged by García and Antonsson. Parts of the removed material appeared in Gardner Dozois's anthologies Dangerous Women (as The Princess and the Queen), Rogues (as The Rogue Prince) and The Book of Swords (as The Sons of the Dragon). Addressing comparisons of The World of Ice & Fire to J. R. R. Tolkien's The Silmarillion, Martin clarified that while his book provides a basic overview of the many areas of his fictional world and their histories, he planned to someday publish a more extensive volume focusing primarily on the Targaryens, which he jokingly dubbed "The GRRMarillion." As plans for an eventual second companion book became more solidified, Martin said that it would more formally be titled Fire & Blood, because it gives expanded detail on the reign of each Targaryen king.
The World of Ice & Fire : The World of Ice & Fire. Bantam Books. Martin, George R. R. (October 27, 2014). "George R. R. Martin: The World of Ice & Fire (Video)" (Interview). Interviewed by Laura Miller. New York. Retrieved November 9, 2014.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : A Song of Ice and Fire, the series of fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin, has formed the basis of several works in different media.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : The first issue of the comic book adaptation of the first novel, A Game of Thrones, by fantasy author Daniel Abraham and artist Tommy Patterson, was published by Dynamite Entertainment in September 2011. The series is set to run for 24 issues and is intended to follow the story of the novel closely. The first six issues were published as a trade paperback in March 2012: Abraham, Daniel; Martin, George R.R. (2012). A Game of Thrones: The Graphic Novel: Volume One. Bantam Books. ISBN 978-0-440-42321-8.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : Thomas Dunne Books announced in August 2011 that it had acquired the rights to Game of Groans, a parody of Game of Thrones in the vein of Bored of the Rings, by the pseudonymous "George R.R. Costanza". The book was eventually published on March 27, 2012 by St. Martin's Griffin and credited to "George R.R. Washington" and Alan Goldsher: Washington, George R.R.; Goldsher, Alan (2012). A Game of Groans: A Sonnet of Slush and Soot. St. Martin's Griffin. ISBN 978-1-250-01126-8. In 2012, The Bad Dog Theatre Company adapted the novels as a four-hour improv comedy show in Toronto, titled Throne of Games. The fall 2012 ready-to-wear collection by the fashion brand Helmut Lang was inspired by Game of Thrones. In March 2012, Wiley-Blackwell published Game of Thrones and Philosophy: Logic Cuts Deeper than the Sword (ISBN 978-1-118-16199-9). This entry in Blackwell's Pop Culture and Philosophy series, edited by Henry Jacoby and William Irwin, aims to highlight and discuss philosophical issues raised by the show and its source material. In 2013, Game of Thrones was notably parodied on the cover of Mad on April 30, as well as by a web series, School of Thrones, which set the story in a high school whose students vie for the title of prom king and queen. The "One World Symphony" company announced, in 2014, a musical production based on television series including Game of Thrones. In 2015, the Under the Gun Theater of Chicago premiered Swarm of Spoilers, a parody show recapitulating the first four seasons of the TV series. In 2013, the animated comedy series South Park aired a three-part episode ("Black Friday", "A Song of Ass and Fire" and "Titties and Dragons") satirizing the U.S. custom of Black Friday in the form of a parody of Game of Thrones. Two pornographic parodies of the series were also announced in 2013. One of these, This Ain't Game of Thrones XXX, was released in 2014, produced by Hustler Video and directed by Axel Braun. The movie incorporates many of the main characters such as Jaime Lannister (Richie Calhoun), Jon Snow (Ryan Driller), Cersei Lannister (Brandi Love), Sansa Stark (Marie McCray), Daenerys Targaryen (Spencer Scott), Tyrion Lannister (Evan Stone), and Brienne of Tarth (Amanda Tate). In 2016 the parody recap series of Game of Thrones, called Gay of Thrones was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Short-Form Variety Series. In 2015, the inaugural American edition of Red Nose Day featured the comedy sketch Coldplay's Game of Thrones: The Musical, a mockumentary regarding a failed musical theatre adaptation of the television show by the British band Coldplay, featuring many castmembers of Game of Thrones such as Peter Dinklage, Kit Harington, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Emilia Clarke, Alfie Allen and Iwan Rheon. A parody titled Game of Thrones: The Musical, written by Basil Considine and developed by Really Spicy Opera, appeared at the Minnesota Fringe Festival in August 2016 and the 2017 Oahu and Maui Fringe Festivals and was rated a must-see by the St. Paul Pioneer Press.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : Greek black metal band Nocternity's guitarist's pseudonym is Khal Drogo and they recorded a song on 2003's Onyx CD called "Valyrian Steel (Blood Of The Dragon)" with lyrics directly referencing Daenerys' storyline and events. Swedish power metal band HammerFall released an album in 2005 titled Chapter V: Unbent, Unbowed, Unbroken, the family motto of House Martell. Tracks on the album such as "Take the Black", "Fury of the Wild", and "Hammer of Justice" directly reference events and characters. The following album Threshold also features a song inspired by A Song of Ice and Fire, titled "Dark Wings, Dark Words". Their 2014 album (r)Evolution also features two songs inspired by the series, titled "Winter Is Coming", the family motto of House Stark, and "Wildfire", a highly flammable liquid in the ASoIaF world, which burns with a green fire. The German symphonic metal band Blind Guardian have written two songs dedicated to the world of George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire. The songs are called "War of the Thrones" and "A Voice in the Dark" and are part of their 2010 At the Edge of Time album. British alternative rock band Dark Stares based their name on Ser Gerold Dayne, known as Darkstar. Their song "Blackfyre" from EP Octopon is a homage to House Blackfyre and the Blackfyre Rebellion. In 2012, the Canadian band Irish Moutarde adapted the song The Bear and the Maiden Fair, sung at various times in the novels, as a celtic punk rock song. The metal band, The Sword, has a song on the album Gods of the Earth called "To Take the Black" referencing the Night's Watch. American power metal band Last Alliance recorded an album called the Westeros Trilogy in 2013. == References ==
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones is a strategy board game created by Christian T. Petersen and published by Fantasy Flight Games in 2003. The game is based on the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin. It was followed in 2004 by the expansion A Clash of Kings, and in 2006 by the expansion A Storm of Swords. A Game of Thrones allows players to take on the roles of several of the Great Houses of Westeros vying for control of the Seven Kingdoms, including House Stark, House Lannister, House Baratheon, House Greyjoy, House Tyrell, and as of the expansion A Clash of Kings, House Martell. Players maneuver armies to secure support in the various regions that comprise the Seven Kingdoms, with the goal of capturing enough support to claim the Iron Throne. The basic gameplay mechanics are reminiscent of Diplomacy, especially in the order-giving process, though A Game of Thrones is significantly more complicated overall. Upon its release, the game received positive reviews, and was nominated for several awards.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Arryn (included in A Feast for Crows expansion and Mother of Dragons expansion) Baratheon Greyjoy Lannister Martell (included in A Clash of Kings expansion and the second edition) Stark Targaryen (included in Mother of Dragons expansion) Tyrell
A Game of Thrones (board game) : In October 2011, the revised second edition was released by Fantasy Flight Games, with some minor changes to gameplay as well as new updated board and House card graphics. The second edition includes the additions introduced in the A Clash of Kings expansion to the base game (House Martell, siege engines, and ports, which are printed on the board). The presence of House Martell has resulted in the redesigning of the southern part of the map to have more regions. Other changes to game play include alterations to the starting positions of units for some Houses (such as Greyjoy), the abilities of house cards, the effects of consolidate power and raid special orders, and the possibility to use Tides of Battle cards to affect battles.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Jesse Scoble comments: "Like many of the best games, A Game of Thrones is fairly easy to learn, but has more than enough complexity and depth that it is challenging to master. Although there are a lot of components, both in pieces and in specific rules, playing through a few turns is all that most casual players will need in order to pick it up. The rulebook is short and well-illustrated with examples that cover most situations, and Fantasy Flight's website is updated with a current FAQ for more rare occurrences. The randomizing factors — from house selection to the Clash of Kings bidding event — ensure that the game has a lot of variety, and calls for players to think quickly to react to new and unexpected situations as they arise." Shannon Appelcline in his history of Fantasy Flight Games called A Game of Thrones board game "ground-breaking for its combination of euro and American mechanics": 299 and credited it with influencing the later FFG board games that likewise profited from a "mixture of tight eurogame mechanics and deep American theming".: 305 In 2004, A Game of Thrones won three Origins Awards for Best Traditional Board Game, Best Board Game, and Best Board Game Design for the year 2003. A second edition of the game was released in 2011.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones (card game) A Game of Thrones (role-playing game)
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords at BoardGameGeek Second edition rules Second Edition product site
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones is a strategy board game created by Christian T. Petersen and published by Fantasy Flight Games in 2003. The game is based on the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin. It was followed in 2004 by the expansion A Clash of Kings, and in 2006 by the expansion A Storm of Swords. A Game of Thrones allows players to take on the roles of several of the Great Houses of Westeros vying for control of the Seven Kingdoms, including House Stark, House Lannister, House Baratheon, House Greyjoy, House Tyrell, and as of the expansion A Clash of Kings, House Martell. Players maneuver armies to secure support in the various regions that comprise the Seven Kingdoms, with the goal of capturing enough support to claim the Iron Throne. The basic gameplay mechanics are reminiscent of Diplomacy, especially in the order-giving process, though A Game of Thrones is significantly more complicated overall. Upon its release, the game received positive reviews, and was nominated for several awards.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Arryn (included in A Feast for Crows expansion and Mother of Dragons expansion) Baratheon Greyjoy Lannister Martell (included in A Clash of Kings expansion and the second edition) Stark Targaryen (included in Mother of Dragons expansion) Tyrell
A Game of Thrones (board game) : In October 2011, the revised second edition was released by Fantasy Flight Games, with some minor changes to gameplay as well as new updated board and House card graphics. The second edition includes the additions introduced in the A Clash of Kings expansion to the base game (House Martell, siege engines, and ports, which are printed on the board). The presence of House Martell has resulted in the redesigning of the southern part of the map to have more regions. Other changes to game play include alterations to the starting positions of units for some Houses (such as Greyjoy), the abilities of house cards, the effects of consolidate power and raid special orders, and the possibility to use Tides of Battle cards to affect battles.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Jesse Scoble comments: "Like many of the best games, A Game of Thrones is fairly easy to learn, but has more than enough complexity and depth that it is challenging to master. Although there are a lot of components, both in pieces and in specific rules, playing through a few turns is all that most casual players will need in order to pick it up. The rulebook is short and well-illustrated with examples that cover most situations, and Fantasy Flight's website is updated with a current FAQ for more rare occurrences. The randomizing factors — from house selection to the Clash of Kings bidding event — ensure that the game has a lot of variety, and calls for players to think quickly to react to new and unexpected situations as they arise." Shannon Appelcline in his history of Fantasy Flight Games called A Game of Thrones board game "ground-breaking for its combination of euro and American mechanics": 299 and credited it with influencing the later FFG board games that likewise profited from a "mixture of tight eurogame mechanics and deep American theming".: 305 In 2004, A Game of Thrones won three Origins Awards for Best Traditional Board Game, Best Board Game, and Best Board Game Design for the year 2003. A second edition of the game was released in 2011.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones (card game) A Game of Thrones (role-playing game)
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords at BoardGameGeek Second edition rules Second Edition product site
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones is a strategy board game created by Christian T. Petersen and published by Fantasy Flight Games in 2003. The game is based on the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin. It was followed in 2004 by the expansion A Clash of Kings, and in 2006 by the expansion A Storm of Swords. A Game of Thrones allows players to take on the roles of several of the Great Houses of Westeros vying for control of the Seven Kingdoms, including House Stark, House Lannister, House Baratheon, House Greyjoy, House Tyrell, and as of the expansion A Clash of Kings, House Martell. Players maneuver armies to secure support in the various regions that comprise the Seven Kingdoms, with the goal of capturing enough support to claim the Iron Throne. The basic gameplay mechanics are reminiscent of Diplomacy, especially in the order-giving process, though A Game of Thrones is significantly more complicated overall. Upon its release, the game received positive reviews, and was nominated for several awards.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Arryn (included in A Feast for Crows expansion and Mother of Dragons expansion) Baratheon Greyjoy Lannister Martell (included in A Clash of Kings expansion and the second edition) Stark Targaryen (included in Mother of Dragons expansion) Tyrell
A Game of Thrones (board game) : In October 2011, the revised second edition was released by Fantasy Flight Games, with some minor changes to gameplay as well as new updated board and House card graphics. The second edition includes the additions introduced in the A Clash of Kings expansion to the base game (House Martell, siege engines, and ports, which are printed on the board). The presence of House Martell has resulted in the redesigning of the southern part of the map to have more regions. Other changes to game play include alterations to the starting positions of units for some Houses (such as Greyjoy), the abilities of house cards, the effects of consolidate power and raid special orders, and the possibility to use Tides of Battle cards to affect battles.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Jesse Scoble comments: "Like many of the best games, A Game of Thrones is fairly easy to learn, but has more than enough complexity and depth that it is challenging to master. Although there are a lot of components, both in pieces and in specific rules, playing through a few turns is all that most casual players will need in order to pick it up. The rulebook is short and well-illustrated with examples that cover most situations, and Fantasy Flight's website is updated with a current FAQ for more rare occurrences. The randomizing factors — from house selection to the Clash of Kings bidding event — ensure that the game has a lot of variety, and calls for players to think quickly to react to new and unexpected situations as they arise." Shannon Appelcline in his history of Fantasy Flight Games called A Game of Thrones board game "ground-breaking for its combination of euro and American mechanics": 299 and credited it with influencing the later FFG board games that likewise profited from a "mixture of tight eurogame mechanics and deep American theming".: 305 In 2004, A Game of Thrones won three Origins Awards for Best Traditional Board Game, Best Board Game, and Best Board Game Design for the year 2003. A second edition of the game was released in 2011.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones (card game) A Game of Thrones (role-playing game)
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords at BoardGameGeek Second edition rules Second Edition product site
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg is a series of fantasy novellas by George R. R. Martin, set in the world of his A Song of Ice and Fire novels. They follow the adventures of "Dunk" (the future Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Ser Duncan the Tall) and "Egg" (the future King Aegon V Targaryen), some 90 years before the events of the novels. Three novellas have been published – The Hedge Knight (1998), The Sworn Sword (2003), and The Mystery Knight (2010) – and Martin has stated his intention to continue the series. A collection of the existing three novellas, with illustrations by Gary Gianni, was published as A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms on October 6, 2015.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The first novella was originally published August 25, 1998, in the Legends anthology, edited by Robert Silverberg. The story was later adapted into a six-issue comic book limited series by Ben Avery, drawn by Mike S. Miller, produced by Roaring Studios (now Dabel Brothers Productions) and published by Image Comics and Devil's Due between August 2003 and May 2004. Devil's Due published the complete limited series as a graphic novel in June 2004. Following the termination of the partnership between Dabel Brothers and Devil's Due, the graphic novel has been republished in various editions.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The second novella was published in 2003 in the Legends II anthology, also edited by Robert Silverberg. The story has been adapted into a graphic novel by Ben Avery and drawn by Mike S. Miller, in cooperation with publisher and distributor Marvel Comics. The first comic was released on June 20, 2007, and the graphic novel was released on June 18, 2008.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The third novella was published in 2010 in the anthology Warriors, edited by George R. R. Martin and Gardner Dozois. Like The Sworn Sword, the book takes place during the reign of Aerys I and the aftermath of the Blackfyre Rebellion is examined in more detail.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Martin has said that he would like to write a number of these stories (varying from six to twelve from interview to interview) covering the entire lives of these two characters. In 2011 he talked about working on the fourth novella, which was originally to be included in the anthology Dangerous Women, and a year after that it and the three previously published Dunk and Egg tales were to be collected and published in the U.S. by Bantam Spectra as a stand-alone fix-up novel. The working title of the fourth novella was The She-Wolves of Winterfell. As of late 2013, work on the story has been postponed while Martin completes The Winds of Winter. In April 2014, Martin also announced that he had roughed out another Dunk and Egg story with the working title The Village Hero which would be set in the Riverlands. He noted that he was not sure which of these two would be completed first. In 2015, Martin noted that in addition to She-Wolves and The Village Hero he had notes and fairly specific ideas for a number of further installments, including The Sellsword, The Champion, The Kingsguard, and The Lord Commander, taking the planned series total to as many as nine novellas.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The novellas were adapted as comic books which were reprinted as graphic novels: Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2005). The Hedge Knight (2nd ed.). Dabel Brothers. ISBN 978-0-9764011-0-0. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2008). The Sworn Sword. Marvel. ISBN 978-0-7851-2650-8. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S. (2017). The Mystery Knight. Bantam. ISBN 978-0345549396. Martin wrote in 2014 that film or TV adaptations of the novellas are being discussed. He suggested that because HBO owns the TV rights to the setting of Westeros (if not to the characters of the novellas), it would be preferable to have HBO adapt the novellas as well. On January 21, 2021, Variety reported that an adaptation of the Tales of Dunk and Egg series, a prequel to the events of Game of Thrones, is in early development on HBO. It was given a straight to series order on April 12, 2023. The show will star Peter Claffey and Dexter Sol Ansell as the titular characters. Filming began in Belfast, Northern Ireland in June 2024.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg at the Internet Book List Review and interview on suvudu.com Hudson, Laura (August 7, 2007). "George R. R. Martin's Adventures in Comics Part 1". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014. Hudson, Laura (August 14, 2007). "Talking with George R. R. Martin Part 2". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg is a series of fantasy novellas by George R. R. Martin, set in the world of his A Song of Ice and Fire novels. They follow the adventures of "Dunk" (the future Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Ser Duncan the Tall) and "Egg" (the future King Aegon V Targaryen), some 90 years before the events of the novels. Three novellas have been published – The Hedge Knight (1998), The Sworn Sword (2003), and The Mystery Knight (2010) – and Martin has stated his intention to continue the series. A collection of the existing three novellas, with illustrations by Gary Gianni, was published as A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms on October 6, 2015.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The first novella was originally published August 25, 1998, in the Legends anthology, edited by Robert Silverberg. The story was later adapted into a six-issue comic book limited series by Ben Avery, drawn by Mike S. Miller, produced by Roaring Studios (now Dabel Brothers Productions) and published by Image Comics and Devil's Due between August 2003 and May 2004. Devil's Due published the complete limited series as a graphic novel in June 2004. Following the termination of the partnership between Dabel Brothers and Devil's Due, the graphic novel has been republished in various editions.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The second novella was published in 2003 in the Legends II anthology, also edited by Robert Silverberg. The story has been adapted into a graphic novel by Ben Avery and drawn by Mike S. Miller, in cooperation with publisher and distributor Marvel Comics. The first comic was released on June 20, 2007, and the graphic novel was released on June 18, 2008.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The third novella was published in 2010 in the anthology Warriors, edited by George R. R. Martin and Gardner Dozois. Like The Sworn Sword, the book takes place during the reign of Aerys I and the aftermath of the Blackfyre Rebellion is examined in more detail.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Martin has said that he would like to write a number of these stories (varying from six to twelve from interview to interview) covering the entire lives of these two characters. In 2011 he talked about working on the fourth novella, which was originally to be included in the anthology Dangerous Women, and a year after that it and the three previously published Dunk and Egg tales were to be collected and published in the U.S. by Bantam Spectra as a stand-alone fix-up novel. The working title of the fourth novella was The She-Wolves of Winterfell. As of late 2013, work on the story has been postponed while Martin completes The Winds of Winter. In April 2014, Martin also announced that he had roughed out another Dunk and Egg story with the working title The Village Hero which would be set in the Riverlands. He noted that he was not sure which of these two would be completed first. In 2015, Martin noted that in addition to She-Wolves and The Village Hero he had notes and fairly specific ideas for a number of further installments, including The Sellsword, The Champion, The Kingsguard, and The Lord Commander, taking the planned series total to as many as nine novellas.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The novellas were adapted as comic books which were reprinted as graphic novels: Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2005). The Hedge Knight (2nd ed.). Dabel Brothers. ISBN 978-0-9764011-0-0. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2008). The Sworn Sword. Marvel. ISBN 978-0-7851-2650-8. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S. (2017). The Mystery Knight. Bantam. ISBN 978-0345549396. Martin wrote in 2014 that film or TV adaptations of the novellas are being discussed. He suggested that because HBO owns the TV rights to the setting of Westeros (if not to the characters of the novellas), it would be preferable to have HBO adapt the novellas as well. On January 21, 2021, Variety reported that an adaptation of the Tales of Dunk and Egg series, a prequel to the events of Game of Thrones, is in early development on HBO. It was given a straight to series order on April 12, 2023. The show will star Peter Claffey and Dexter Sol Ansell as the titular characters. Filming began in Belfast, Northern Ireland in June 2024.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg at the Internet Book List Review and interview on suvudu.com Hudson, Laura (August 7, 2007). "George R. R. Martin's Adventures in Comics Part 1". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014. Hudson, Laura (August 14, 2007). "Talking with George R. R. Martin Part 2". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones is a strategy board game created by Christian T. Petersen and published by Fantasy Flight Games in 2003. The game is based on the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin. It was followed in 2004 by the expansion A Clash of Kings, and in 2006 by the expansion A Storm of Swords. A Game of Thrones allows players to take on the roles of several of the Great Houses of Westeros vying for control of the Seven Kingdoms, including House Stark, House Lannister, House Baratheon, House Greyjoy, House Tyrell, and as of the expansion A Clash of Kings, House Martell. Players maneuver armies to secure support in the various regions that comprise the Seven Kingdoms, with the goal of capturing enough support to claim the Iron Throne. The basic gameplay mechanics are reminiscent of Diplomacy, especially in the order-giving process, though A Game of Thrones is significantly more complicated overall. Upon its release, the game received positive reviews, and was nominated for several awards.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Arryn (included in A Feast for Crows expansion and Mother of Dragons expansion) Baratheon Greyjoy Lannister Martell (included in A Clash of Kings expansion and the second edition) Stark Targaryen (included in Mother of Dragons expansion) Tyrell
A Game of Thrones (board game) : In October 2011, the revised second edition was released by Fantasy Flight Games, with some minor changes to gameplay as well as new updated board and House card graphics. The second edition includes the additions introduced in the A Clash of Kings expansion to the base game (House Martell, siege engines, and ports, which are printed on the board). The presence of House Martell has resulted in the redesigning of the southern part of the map to have more regions. Other changes to game play include alterations to the starting positions of units for some Houses (such as Greyjoy), the abilities of house cards, the effects of consolidate power and raid special orders, and the possibility to use Tides of Battle cards to affect battles.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : Jesse Scoble comments: "Like many of the best games, A Game of Thrones is fairly easy to learn, but has more than enough complexity and depth that it is challenging to master. Although there are a lot of components, both in pieces and in specific rules, playing through a few turns is all that most casual players will need in order to pick it up. The rulebook is short and well-illustrated with examples that cover most situations, and Fantasy Flight's website is updated with a current FAQ for more rare occurrences. The randomizing factors — from house selection to the Clash of Kings bidding event — ensure that the game has a lot of variety, and calls for players to think quickly to react to new and unexpected situations as they arise." Shannon Appelcline in his history of Fantasy Flight Games called A Game of Thrones board game "ground-breaking for its combination of euro and American mechanics": 299 and credited it with influencing the later FFG board games that likewise profited from a "mixture of tight eurogame mechanics and deep American theming".: 305 In 2004, A Game of Thrones won three Origins Awards for Best Traditional Board Game, Best Board Game, and Best Board Game Design for the year 2003. A second edition of the game was released in 2011.
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones (card game) A Game of Thrones (role-playing game)
A Game of Thrones (board game) : A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords at BoardGameGeek Second edition rules Second Edition product site
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg is a series of fantasy novellas by George R. R. Martin, set in the world of his A Song of Ice and Fire novels. They follow the adventures of "Dunk" (the future Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Ser Duncan the Tall) and "Egg" (the future King Aegon V Targaryen), some 90 years before the events of the novels. Three novellas have been published – The Hedge Knight (1998), The Sworn Sword (2003), and The Mystery Knight (2010) – and Martin has stated his intention to continue the series. A collection of the existing three novellas, with illustrations by Gary Gianni, was published as A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms on October 6, 2015.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The first novella was originally published August 25, 1998, in the Legends anthology, edited by Robert Silverberg. The story was later adapted into a six-issue comic book limited series by Ben Avery, drawn by Mike S. Miller, produced by Roaring Studios (now Dabel Brothers Productions) and published by Image Comics and Devil's Due between August 2003 and May 2004. Devil's Due published the complete limited series as a graphic novel in June 2004. Following the termination of the partnership between Dabel Brothers and Devil's Due, the graphic novel has been republished in various editions.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The second novella was published in 2003 in the Legends II anthology, also edited by Robert Silverberg. The story has been adapted into a graphic novel by Ben Avery and drawn by Mike S. Miller, in cooperation with publisher and distributor Marvel Comics. The first comic was released on June 20, 2007, and the graphic novel was released on June 18, 2008.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The third novella was published in 2010 in the anthology Warriors, edited by George R. R. Martin and Gardner Dozois. Like The Sworn Sword, the book takes place during the reign of Aerys I and the aftermath of the Blackfyre Rebellion is examined in more detail.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Martin has said that he would like to write a number of these stories (varying from six to twelve from interview to interview) covering the entire lives of these two characters. In 2011 he talked about working on the fourth novella, which was originally to be included in the anthology Dangerous Women, and a year after that it and the three previously published Dunk and Egg tales were to be collected and published in the U.S. by Bantam Spectra as a stand-alone fix-up novel. The working title of the fourth novella was The She-Wolves of Winterfell. As of late 2013, work on the story has been postponed while Martin completes The Winds of Winter. In April 2014, Martin also announced that he had roughed out another Dunk and Egg story with the working title The Village Hero which would be set in the Riverlands. He noted that he was not sure which of these two would be completed first. In 2015, Martin noted that in addition to She-Wolves and The Village Hero he had notes and fairly specific ideas for a number of further installments, including The Sellsword, The Champion, The Kingsguard, and The Lord Commander, taking the planned series total to as many as nine novellas.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The novellas were adapted as comic books which were reprinted as graphic novels: Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2005). The Hedge Knight (2nd ed.). Dabel Brothers. ISBN 978-0-9764011-0-0. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2008). The Sworn Sword. Marvel. ISBN 978-0-7851-2650-8. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S. (2017). The Mystery Knight. Bantam. ISBN 978-0345549396. Martin wrote in 2014 that film or TV adaptations of the novellas are being discussed. He suggested that because HBO owns the TV rights to the setting of Westeros (if not to the characters of the novellas), it would be preferable to have HBO adapt the novellas as well. On January 21, 2021, Variety reported that an adaptation of the Tales of Dunk and Egg series, a prequel to the events of Game of Thrones, is in early development on HBO. It was given a straight to series order on April 12, 2023. The show will star Peter Claffey and Dexter Sol Ansell as the titular characters. Filming began in Belfast, Northern Ireland in June 2024.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg at the Internet Book List Review and interview on suvudu.com Hudson, Laura (August 7, 2007). "George R. R. Martin's Adventures in Comics Part 1". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014. Hudson, Laura (August 14, 2007). "Talking with George R. R. Martin Part 2". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : A Song of Ice and Fire, the series of fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin, has formed the basis of several works in different media.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : The first issue of the comic book adaptation of the first novel, A Game of Thrones, by fantasy author Daniel Abraham and artist Tommy Patterson, was published by Dynamite Entertainment in September 2011. The series is set to run for 24 issues and is intended to follow the story of the novel closely. The first six issues were published as a trade paperback in March 2012: Abraham, Daniel; Martin, George R.R. (2012). A Game of Thrones: The Graphic Novel: Volume One. Bantam Books. ISBN 978-0-440-42321-8.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : Thomas Dunne Books announced in August 2011 that it had acquired the rights to Game of Groans, a parody of Game of Thrones in the vein of Bored of the Rings, by the pseudonymous "George R.R. Costanza". The book was eventually published on March 27, 2012 by St. Martin's Griffin and credited to "George R.R. Washington" and Alan Goldsher: Washington, George R.R.; Goldsher, Alan (2012). A Game of Groans: A Sonnet of Slush and Soot. St. Martin's Griffin. ISBN 978-1-250-01126-8. In 2012, The Bad Dog Theatre Company adapted the novels as a four-hour improv comedy show in Toronto, titled Throne of Games. The fall 2012 ready-to-wear collection by the fashion brand Helmut Lang was inspired by Game of Thrones. In March 2012, Wiley-Blackwell published Game of Thrones and Philosophy: Logic Cuts Deeper than the Sword (ISBN 978-1-118-16199-9). This entry in Blackwell's Pop Culture and Philosophy series, edited by Henry Jacoby and William Irwin, aims to highlight and discuss philosophical issues raised by the show and its source material. In 2013, Game of Thrones was notably parodied on the cover of Mad on April 30, as well as by a web series, School of Thrones, which set the story in a high school whose students vie for the title of prom king and queen. The "One World Symphony" company announced, in 2014, a musical production based on television series including Game of Thrones. In 2015, the Under the Gun Theater of Chicago premiered Swarm of Spoilers, a parody show recapitulating the first four seasons of the TV series. In 2013, the animated comedy series South Park aired a three-part episode ("Black Friday", "A Song of Ass and Fire" and "Titties and Dragons") satirizing the U.S. custom of Black Friday in the form of a parody of Game of Thrones. Two pornographic parodies of the series were also announced in 2013. One of these, This Ain't Game of Thrones XXX, was released in 2014, produced by Hustler Video and directed by Axel Braun. The movie incorporates many of the main characters such as Jaime Lannister (Richie Calhoun), Jon Snow (Ryan Driller), Cersei Lannister (Brandi Love), Sansa Stark (Marie McCray), Daenerys Targaryen (Spencer Scott), Tyrion Lannister (Evan Stone), and Brienne of Tarth (Amanda Tate). In 2016 the parody recap series of Game of Thrones, called Gay of Thrones was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Short-Form Variety Series. In 2015, the inaugural American edition of Red Nose Day featured the comedy sketch Coldplay's Game of Thrones: The Musical, a mockumentary regarding a failed musical theatre adaptation of the television show by the British band Coldplay, featuring many castmembers of Game of Thrones such as Peter Dinklage, Kit Harington, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Emilia Clarke, Alfie Allen and Iwan Rheon. A parody titled Game of Thrones: The Musical, written by Basil Considine and developed by Really Spicy Opera, appeared at the Minnesota Fringe Festival in August 2016 and the 2017 Oahu and Maui Fringe Festivals and was rated a must-see by the St. Paul Pioneer Press.
Works based on A Song of Ice and Fire : Greek black metal band Nocternity's guitarist's pseudonym is Khal Drogo and they recorded a song on 2003's Onyx CD called "Valyrian Steel (Blood Of The Dragon)" with lyrics directly referencing Daenerys' storyline and events. Swedish power metal band HammerFall released an album in 2005 titled Chapter V: Unbent, Unbowed, Unbroken, the family motto of House Martell. Tracks on the album such as "Take the Black", "Fury of the Wild", and "Hammer of Justice" directly reference events and characters. The following album Threshold also features a song inspired by A Song of Ice and Fire, titled "Dark Wings, Dark Words". Their 2014 album (r)Evolution also features two songs inspired by the series, titled "Winter Is Coming", the family motto of House Stark, and "Wildfire", a highly flammable liquid in the ASoIaF world, which burns with a green fire. The German symphonic metal band Blind Guardian have written two songs dedicated to the world of George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire. The songs are called "War of the Thrones" and "A Voice in the Dark" and are part of their 2010 At the Edge of Time album. British alternative rock band Dark Stares based their name on Ser Gerold Dayne, known as Darkstar. Their song "Blackfyre" from EP Octopon is a homage to House Blackfyre and the Blackfyre Rebellion. In 2012, the Canadian band Irish Moutarde adapted the song The Bear and the Maiden Fair, sung at various times in the novels, as a celtic punk rock song. The metal band, The Sword, has a song on the album Gods of the Earth called "To Take the Black" referencing the Night's Watch. American power metal band Last Alliance recorded an album called the Westeros Trilogy in 2013. == References ==
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire saga features a large cast of characters. The series follows three interwoven plotlines: a dynastic war for control of Westeros by several families; the rising threat of the undead White Walkers beyond the northern border of Westeros; and the ambition of Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled heir of the previous ruling dynasty. In Martin's fictional world, the Great Houses of Westeros represent the Seven Kingdoms which exist on the continent: the North, the Iron Islands, the Vale of Arryn, the Westerlands, the Stormlands, the Reach, and Dorne. A massive wall of ice and old magic separates the Seven Kingdoms from the largely unmapped area in the most northern portion of the continent. Each chapter is narrated in the third-person limited point of view through the eyes of a single character. Beginning with nine POV characters in A Game of Thrones (1996), a total of thirty-one such characters have narrated over the course of the first five volumes of the series.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Stark is described as one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and the principal house of the North. Its seat is at Winterfell, one of the oldest castles in the Seven Kingdoms. Its coat of arms displays a grey direwolf running on a white field, and its words are Winter is Coming. Bastards born in the North are given the surname "Snow". House Stark had ruled as the Kings in the North for thousands of years until House Targaryen conquered Westeros, whereafter the Starks were known as the Lords of Winterfell and Wardens of the North. For prizing honor and devotion to duty, House Stark is the closest of the noble houses to heroism. Descended from Bran the Builder, the architect of the Wall, House Stark is the chief First Men dynasty in Westeros due to their successful repulsion of the Andal invasion and became the ruling house in the North after defeating the Barrow Kings and slowly uniting the North into one kingdom, contesting for dominance with House Bolton of the Dreadfort, the second-most powerful Northern house with a sinister reputation for their flaying tradition. Their expanding dominion would also repel incursions of pirates and raiders, and secure control of the Neck through their vassals of House Reed. They would also gain a new vassal from the Reach after House Manderly was exiled, granting them White Harbor in exchange for protection against piracy. House Stark would ultimately unite the North and drive the ironborn away, making enemies with House Hoare, and a new vassal in House Mormont of Bear Island, just as the Andals arrived in Westeros and began conquering every kingdom the First Men had built and converting them to the Faith of the Seven. The Starks made peace with the Boltons and finally unified the North and began opposing the Andals as one force instead of individually like the rest of the First Men, sacking Andalos and driving them back from the fortress of Moat Cailin. They would lose their strength at sea after a failed voyage across the Sunset Sea ended in all their ships being torched. House Stark would also aid the Night's Watch several times against wildling raids, defeating many Kings-beyond-the-Wall, and forming a second branch, called House Karstark. During Aegon's conquest of Westeros, the Starks intended to oppose the Targaryens, unwilling to bow to an outsider, but King Torrhen Stark knelt after hearing of the scorching of Harrenhal and the devastating outcome of the Field of Fire caused by the Targaryen dragons, becoming the first Warden of the North, and had a marriage alliance with House Arryn to keep the realm together. Over the course of the novels, the Starks are scattered by the War of the Five Kings, and the fate of the House remains uncertain, as most characters believe that all the legitimate Stark sons are dead.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : In Martin's fictional universe, House Targaryen was the ruling house of the Seven Kingdoms for nearly 300 years, holding royal court in King's Landing. Its coat of arms shows a red, three-headed dragon breathing fire on a black field, and its words are Fire and Blood. The Targaryens originally came from Valyria on the continent of Essos, one of forty dragonlord families in the Valyrian Freehold, but not the most powerful. Before Valyria was destroyed, the Targaryens left for Dragonstone, the westernmost outpost of their empire. A century after the Valyrian "Doom", Aegon I Targaryen was approached by an alliance of some of the Free Cities against Volantis, Valyria's oldest colony, who sought to rebuild the Freehold under their rule, which Aegon consented to before defeating Volantis with his dragon, Balerion. With the Valyrian Freehold broken, Aegon turned west towards Westeros, intent on uniting the Seven Kingdoms under one ruler, with Dragonstone being the perfect staging point for his conquest, due to having deep waters for his fleet and within range of the continent. With the aid of his sister-wives, Rhaenys and Visenya, the Targaryens, using their three dragons, successfully conquered six of the Seven Kingdoms by destroying defiant houses and making subjects of submissive ones, with the seventh one peacefully joining the realm through marriage. Aegon built the Iron Throne with his enemies' swords and his dragon's flame, building the Red Keep as his throne room and King's Landing as his new capital. The Targaryen dragons were the last known to exist and died out long before the events of A Game of Thrones. People of Targaryen ancestry, referred to as "blood of the dragon", tend to have silver-blonde hair and amethyst eyes. Fifteen years before the events of the series, the Targaryens were deposed in Robert's Rebellion, with the last two fleeing to Essos.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Lannister is described as one of the Major Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and the principal house of the Westerlands. Its seat is at Casterly Rock and they are also given the title Wardens of the West. Its coat of arms displays a golden lion rampant on a crimson field, and its words are 'Hear Me Roar!' The Lannisters began as a First Men dynasty descended from the legendary trickster Lann the Clever, who swindled their traditional seat of Casterly Rock of House Casterly, ruling the Westerlands as Kings of the Rock ever since. They also branched into the nearby city of Lannisport and gained the Reynes of Castamere as a vassal after defeating the Hooded King. The Lannisters would become an Andal bloodline, under a First Man name after the Andal invasion, where they made alliances through marriages and wards. Like many Houses, the Lannisters kept a Valyrian steel blade as an ancestral heirloom, naming it Brightroar, which was lost after King Tommen II Lannister left for Valyria with it, and never returned. The Lannisters would stand with House Gardener against House Targaryen's conquest of Westeros, only to subject their combined armies to annihilation in the Field of Fire, after which King Loren Lannister surrendered and the Lannisters became the Wardens of the West.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : In the book series, House Baratheon is the youngest of the great houses of the Seven Kingdoms and the principal house of The Stormlands. It was founded by Orys, the supposed bastard half-brother of the first Targaryen king. Under Robert, House Baratheon occupies the Iron Throne in King's Landing, with his younger brothers Stannis and Renly ruling Dragonstone and the ancestral seat Storm's End, respectively. The Baratheon coat of arms displays a black stag on a field of gold; a crown was added after Robert Baratheon took the Iron Throne. The house motto is Ours is the Fury. Bastards born in the Stormlands are generally given the surname "Storm".
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Arryn is described as one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and is the principal house in the Vale. It is descended from Kings of Mountain and Vale. Its main seat is at the Eyrie, a small castle atop of a mountain and reputed to be impregnable, where they are the Wardens of the East. Its coat of arms displays a white moon-and-falcon on a sky blue field, and its words are As High as Honor. Bastards born in the Vale are generally given the surname "Stone". Jon Arryn was the head of the Arryn family until he was poisoned shortly before A Game of Thrones. His only child, Robert "Sweetrobin" Arryn, became Lord of the Vale with Lysa Tully acting as regent.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Greyjoy is one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms in Martin's fictional universe and is the principal noble house on the Iron Islands, home to the Ironborn. Its seat is on Pyke. Its coat of arms displays a golden kraken on a black field, and its words are We Do Not Sow. Bastards born in the Iron Islands are given the surname "Pyke". The Greyjoys became Lords Paramount of the Iron Islands after House Targaryen conquered the Seven Kingdoms and allowed the Ironborn to choose who would have primacy over them. Balon Greyjoy is the current Lord of the Iron Islands. He has two surviving children, his only daughter, Asha, and Theon.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : In Martin's fictional world, House Martell is one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and is the ruling house of the kingdom of Dorne. Its seat is the castle of Sunspear. Its coat of arms displays a gold spear piercing a red sun on an orange field, and its words are Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken. Bastards born in Dorne are generally given the surname "Sand". Dorne, along with House Martell, is culturally, ethnically, and politically distinct from the rest of the kingdoms. The rulers of Dorne are styled Prince or Princess because Dorne resisted direct conquest and joined the rest of the Seven Kingdoms through marriage. House Martell was an Andal house that was founded in Dorne during the Andal invasion, where they defeated the ruling First Men houses like the Wades and the Shells, but remained as vassals of other kings like those of Houses Jordayne, Allyrion, and Yronwood while maintaining their own territory. House Martell would rise to prominence with the arrival of the Rhoynish warrior-queen Nymeria in Dorne, along with the remnants of the Rhoynish people, fleeing the wrath of the Valyrian Freehold from the Rhoynish Wars. Lord Mors Martell wed Nymeria and used their combined strength to subdue all his rivals and unify Dorne into one principality. Their marriage would also see the Martells take up Rhoynish customs in place of Andal ones, with much of their civilization, such as the Spear Tower and the Tower of the Sun built in Rhoynish fashion. The Martells of Sunspear, along with Dorne, stood out in the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros as the only kingdom to resist Aegon Targaryen's conquest, with the Dornish resorting to guerilla warfare instead of fielding large armies (to avoid another Field of Fire) and hiding in strong palaces (to avoid the Burning of Harrenhal), assaulting the Targaryen armies when the dragons vanished and escaping whenever they took to the sky. House Martell secured a great Dornish victory against the Targaryens by killing Meraxes, along with Queen Rhaenys, with a scorpion.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Tully is one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms in the fictional book series written by George R. R. Martin and is the principal house in the Riverlands. Its seat is at Riverrun. Its coat of arms displays a leaping silver trout on a field of rippling blue and red stripes, and its words are Family, Duty, Honor. Bastards born in the Riverlands are generally given the surname "Rivers". When House Targaryen invaded Westeros, Lord Tully was among the first to welcome the invaders. In return, the Targaryens made House Tully the principal House of the Riverlands.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Tyrell is described as one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and is the principal noble house in the Reach. Its seat is at Highgarden where they reside as the Wardens of the South. Its coat of arms displays a golden rose on a green field, and its words are Growing Strong. Bastards born in the Reach are generally given the surname "Flowers". When the former rulers of the Reach, House Gardener, were killed in battle against House Targaryen, the Targaryens raised the Tyrells from stewards of Highgarden to Lords of Highgarden. Because House Florent had a better claim to Highgarden, the Tyrells are often seen as "upjumped stewards" by the lords of the Reach and other Great Houses; however, the women of the Tyrell household are noted for being shrewd and clever leaders.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : The Royal Court at King's Landing is mostly composed of the King's Small Council and his Kingsguard, the seven knights sworn to protect the king and his family. All members of the Small Council, except for the Grand Maester, are appointed and dismissed by the king or The Hand.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : A sourced list of GRRM's pronunciations, hosted at Westeros.org HBO's official pronunciation guide for Game of Thrones characters
List of Game of Thrones characters : The characters from the medieval fantasy television series Game of Thrones are based on their respective counterparts from author George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series of novels. Set in a fictional universe that has been referred to so far as "The Known World", the series follows a civil war for the Iron Throne of the continent of Westeros, fought between the rival royal and noble families and their respective supporters.
List of Game of Thrones characters : Characters in A Song of Ice and Fire List of Game of Thrones episodes Northern Inuit Dog
List of House of the Dragon characters : The characters from the medieval fantasy television series House of the Dragon are based on their respective counterparts from author George R. R. Martin's 2013 novella The Princess and the Queen, his 2014 novella The Rogue Prince and his 2018 novel Fire & Blood. The series follows the devastating war of succession for the Iron Throne of the continent of Westeros known as the "Dance of the Dragons", fought between Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen (the Blacks) and King Aegon II Targaryen (the Greens) and their respective supporters.
Petyr Baelish : Petyr Baelish, nicknamed Littlefinger, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation, Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Littlefinger is the master of coin on King Robert's small council. He is a childhood friend of Catelyn Stark, having grown up with her and her two siblings at Riverrun. He subsequently appeared in Martin's books A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), and A Feast for Crows (2005). He is set to appear in the forthcoming novel The Winds of Winter. Littlefinger's primary character attributes are his cunning and boundless ambition. Originally hailing from a minor family with little wealth or influence, Baelish used manipulation, bribery, and the connections he secured at Riverrun to gain power and prestige in King's Landing. His intrigues cause several major events that impact Westeros, including the framing of Tyrion Lannister for the attempt on Bran Stark's life, the downfall of Lord Eddard Stark, the deaths of Lord Jon Arryn and King Joffrey Baratheon, and the War of the Five Kings. He is one of the main antagonists in the series. Littlefinger was portrayed by Irish actor Aidan Gillen in the HBO television adaptation, who received positive reviews.
Petyr Baelish : Littlefinger is not a point-of-view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through other people's eyes, such as Ned Stark, Catelyn Stark, Sansa Stark, Tyrion, and Cersei Lannister.
Petyr Baelish : Lord Petyr Baelish is portrayed as a person of favors. Moreover, he keeps personal profits above all else. Petyr descends from a Braavosi sellsword who served House Corbray. His father befriended Lord Hoster Tully during the War of the Ninepenny Kings, and Tully took the young Petyr as a ward. Petyr grew up at House Tully's castle Riverrun with Hoster's daughters Catelyn and Lysa, and son Edmure; Edmure nicknamed Petyr "Littlefinger" in reference to his short stature and his family's lands on the smallest of the peninsulas called the Fingers. Petyr was a sly, mischievous child with the ability to always look contrite after his mischief. He became infatuated with Catelyn and claims to have lost his virginity to her while drunk; in reality, he lost it to Lysa, who was obsessed with him. When Catelyn was betrothed to Brandon Stark (Eddard Stark's elder brother, namesake of Eddard's son Bran), Petyr brazenly challenged him to a duel for her hand in marriage but lost easily to Brandon. Petyr's life was spared at Catelyn's behest. During his convalescence, Lysa approached Petyr and the two slept together, as Petyr mistook Lysa for Catelyn in his delirious state. But the pregnancy ended in a forced abortion, and Petyr was banished from Riverrun. Even after her marriage to Jon Arryn, Lysa remained in love with Petyr. Her patronage saw Baelish appointed as customs officer at Gulltown, a position he excelled at. In the books it was around this time that Petyr's unnamed father died and passed the unnamed "Baelish Tower" in the Fingers to his son, making him a lord. However, in the show it is implied that both of Baelish's parents died when Petyr was much younger. Jon Arryn, who was Hand to King Robert Baratheon, eventually brought Baelish to King's Landing as Master of Coin. When Arryn tries to have his and Lysa's son Robert sent to Dragonstone to be fostered by Stannis Baratheon, Baelish gives Lysa poison to kill Jon and convinces her to tell Catelyn that House Lannister was responsible. This subterfuge sets in motion the main events of the series.
Joffrey Baratheon : Joffrey Baratheon is a fictional character in A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its HBO television adaptation, Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, he subsequently appears in A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Storm of Swords (2000). Joffrey is officially the eldest son and heir of King Robert Baratheon and Cersei Lannister, but in actuality is the eldest child of an incestuous relationship between Cersei and her twin brother Jaime Lannister. Joffrey inherits the throne after Robert's death, which, along with his execution of Lord Ned Stark of Winterfell, triggers a power struggle in Westeros known as the War of Five Kings. He is characterized as a spoiled, sadistic bully. He frequently torments his family and Sansa Stark, to whom he is betrothed in the first two novels. He later marries Margaery Tyrell, but is killed by poison during his wedding reception. Joffrey is portrayed by Irish actor Jack Gleeson in the television adaptation Game of Thrones, a role for which he received international recognition and critical praise.
Joffrey Baratheon : Joffrey Baratheon is not a point-of-view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as his uncle Tyrion Lannister and his one-time fiancée Sansa Stark. He inherits his mother's traditional Lannister looks, blond hair and green eyes, and is believed by many to be very handsome. His appearance is referred to as his one redeeming quality.
Joffrey Baratheon : In public, Joffrey is allegedly the oldest son and heir of King Robert Baratheon and Queen Cersei Lannister, both of whom entered into a political marriage alliance after Robert took the throne by force from the "Mad King" Aerys II Targaryen. In reality, his biological father is his mother's twin brother, Jaime Lannister. He has a younger sister, Myrcella, and a younger brother, Tommen, both of whom are also products of Jaime and Cersei's incestuous relationship. Their sole biological grandparents, Tywin and Joanna Lannister, were also first cousins. Joffrey is an amoral sadist who disguises his cruelty with a thin veneer of charm. This is best epitomized by his response when his (then) betrothed offends him: Joffrey pronounces that his mother had taught him never to strike a woman, and so commissions a knight of the Kingsguard to hit her instead. He enjoys forcing people to fight to the death, and enforces cruel punishments for lesser crimes. He has no sense of personal responsibility, blaming failures on others. He lacks self-control and often insults his allies and family members. He is also impulsive, which frequently leads him to make rash decisions. He appears to have virtually no interests other than sadism and extreme violence, paying no attention to actually governing his kingdom or to anything involving sex, even when he is offered exceptionally beautiful women. This behaviour could be theorized to be caused by the fact that Joffrey is the product of incest. Though he takes pleasure in violence, Joffrey is shown to be a coward when confronted with danger to himself, and often shies away from any real fighting. Joffrey is 12 years old at the beginning of A Game of Thrones (1996).
Myrcella Baratheon : Myrcella Baratheon is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Myrcella's character, development and her interactions and impact differ greatly between the two media. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Myrcella is the only daughter of Cersei Lannister from the kingdom of Westeros. She subsequently appeared in Martin's A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Feast for Crows (2005). Myrcella is portrayed by Irish actress Aimee Richardson in the first two seasons of the HBO television adaptation, while English actress Nell Tiger Free portrays her in the show's fifth and sixth seasons.
Myrcella Baratheon : Since Myrcella Baratheon is not a point of view character in A Song of Ice and Fire, the reader learns about her through other characters' perspectives, such as her uncle Tyrion Lannister. She is a background character in the books.
Renly Baratheon : Renly Baratheon is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Renly is the youngest of the three sons of Lord Steffon Baratheon and Cassana Estermont, and the younger brother of Robert and Stannis Baratheon. He is Lord of Storm's End and Lord Paramount of the Stormlands. He served as master of laws in his eldest brother's small council, before crowning himself king in the wake of Robert's death with the support of the Reach and the Stormlands, an act that helps kick off the War of Five Kings. This brings him into conflict with his older brother Stannis, whose claim is greater. Renly's homosexual relationship with Loras Tyrell is alluded to in the books and is made clearly evident in the television show. Both men are among Martin's most prominent LGBTQ characters, although Renly and Loras' adapted relationship and the show's portrayal of the latter has received mixed criticism. Renly Baratheon is portrayed by Gethin Anthony in the HBO television adaptation.
Renly Baratheon : Renly Baratheon is the younger brother of King Robert and of King Stannis. He is a handsome and charismatic man that wins friends easily, which makes him popular with the smallfolk. He is thought to look extremely similar to his older brother Robert, albeit smaller and slimmer, inheriting the Baratheon height and long black hair. Although he is well-liked and charismatic, many powerful lords at court secretly consider him to be vain and frivolous. He is described as disdainful of reading, although he enjoys hunting and jousting. Renly is also a closeted gay engaged in a relationship with Loras Tyrell. Renly is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as Ned and Catelyn Stark. He is also often mentioned and remembered by Brienne of Tarth, who had fallen in love with him at a young age. Renly is mostly a background character in the novels.
Renly Baratheon : Renly Baratheon is the youngest of the Baratheon brothers and Lord of Storm's End. He is described as handsome and charismatic, winning friends easily. Renly serves on Robert's council as Master of Laws. After Robert dies, Renly declares himself King of the Seven Kingdoms in A Clash of Kings, wins the support of the Baratheon bannermen as he is their Lord Paramount, and seals an alliance with House Tyrell by marrying Margaery Tyrell. Before he can march on the capital though, he hears Stannis is besieging Storm's End. Renly marches there, intending to kill his brother in battle, and turning down an offer to become Stannis' heir. Before the battle he is assassinated by a shadow conjured by Melisandre, though it is unclear if Stannis is aware of this or not.
Renly Baratheon : Renly Baratheon is played by the British actor Gethin Anthony in the television adaptation of the series of books. Gethin Anthony on his character: "The reason why I like playing him is I think he's a fantastic man who believes in Westeros being a cultured and enlightened place. His major advantage, and why he gets on well in the world, is that he gets on well with people."
Robert Baratheon : Robert Baratheon is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where he is portrayed by English actor Mark Addy. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Robert is the eldest son and heir of Lord Steffon Baratheon. He is a close friend to Ned Stark, both wards of Lord Jon Arryn. After his betrothed Lyanna Stark was allegedly kidnapped by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, Robert, Ned, and Jon started a rebellion against the "Mad King" Aerys II Targaryen. After crushing the Targaryen dynasty and winning the war, during which Lyanna died, Robert took the Iron Throne. He married Tywin Lannister's daughter, Cersei, to ensure political stability. Although Robert's reign is relatively peaceful, he proves to be an ineffective ruler. He is unhappy in his marriage to Cersei, whom he abuses, and his responsibilities as king, and lives a life of infidelity and wanton excess. He fathers many bastards and is unaware that his three children with Cersei had been fathered by her twin brother Jaime Lannister. Although Robert dies in the first novel, the legacy of his rebellion and reign continues to have a great impact on the contemporary events of Westeros. His death creates a power vacuum in which his brothers and Cersei's eldest son, Joffrey, fight for control of the Seven Kingdoms while Robb Stark and Balon Greyjoy fight for secession, known as the War of Five Kings.
Robert Baratheon : Robert Baratheon was the oldest son and heir of Lord Steffon Baratheon and Lady Cassana Estermont. In his youth, he was the ward of Jon Arryn and was raised at the Eyrie alongside Eddard Stark, with whom he was closer than his brothers. When he was 16, his parents drowned and died during a storm, and he became the Lord of Storm's End. He was betrothed to Ned's younger sister Lyanna, with whom he was madly in love (and unrequitedly). After Lyanna disappeared with Rhaegar Targaryen and the execution of Eddard's father, Rickard, and brother, Brandon Stark, King Aerys II called for Robert and Ned's heads. Jon Arryn refused and began what is now called Robert's Rebellion. Robert played a key role in the downfall of the Targaryen dynasty and killed Rhaegar in single combat. He married Cersei Lannister to ensure House Lannister's support for his rule.
Robert Baratheon : Robert Baratheon is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are mainly witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of Ned Stark. He only appears in the first book of the series A Game of Thrones, though he is mentioned numerous times in the later books by characters such as Cersei Lannister.
Robert Baratheon : Mark Addy plays Robert Baratheon in the television adaption of the book series. According to showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, Addy's audition for the role was the best they had seen and he was the easiest actor to cast for the show. Brian Cox said he turned down the role because the "money was not all that great" and the character would be killed off early in the series.
Robert Baratheon : Media related to Robert Baratheon at Wikimedia Commons
Stannis Baratheon : Stannis Baratheon is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. He is the second son of Steffon Baratheon and Cassana Estermont, as well as the brother of Robert – lord of the Seven Kingdoms, and Renly – lord of Storm's End. He is the Lord of Dragonstone, and after his elder brother's death, becomes a claimant to the Iron Throne of Westeros and a key player in the subsequent civil war. Stannis's goals are frequently impeded by his lack of manpower and resources, owing to his unpopularity with other noble houses. He must therefore rely on the counsel of the foreign priestess Melisandre and his right-hand man, lowborn smuggler Davos Seaworth, who he later promotes to Hand of the King. Stannis often struggles to escape the shadow of his two more overtly charismatic brothers, particularly Robert. Though first mentioned in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Stannis formally appeared in A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Dance with Dragons (2011). In December 2011, Martin posted a sample chapter from the yet-unfinished The Winds of Winter, told from Theon Greyjoy's viewpoint, which confirmed Stannis' return in the sixth book. Stannis is portrayed by English actor Stephen Dillane in the HBO television adaptation of the series, who has received significant critical praise for his performance. Stannis is a divisive character among fans of the books and television show alike, enjoying both great popularity for his dedication to justice and dark horse status, as well as opposition for his unrelenting attitude towards the Iron Throne. He has earned particular attention for the differences in his characterization between the novels and show, particularly during season five.
Stannis Baratheon : Stannis Baratheon is the younger brother of King Robert and older brother of Renly. He is portrayed as a brooding and humorless man with a harsh but fair sense of duty and justice whose dour demeanor is often off-putting in comparison to his two more charismatic brothers. He is renowned as a skilled and prescient military commander. Although he is initially said to be extremely stubborn and inflexible, in later books he has shown some ability to use diplomacy and deception to achieve his goals.
Stannis Baratheon : Martin, George R. R. (September 1996). A Game of Thrones. A Song of Ice and Fire (US hardcover ed.). Bantam Spectra. ISBN 978-0-553-10354-0.
Tommen Baratheon : Tommen Baratheon is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Tommen Baratheon is the youngest son of Robert Baratheon and Cersei Lannister from the kingdom of Westeros. He subsequently appeared in Martin's A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), A Feast for Crows (2005) and A Dance with Dragons (2011). After the unexpected death of his brother Joffrey Baratheon, he is crowned king of the Seven Kingdoms, although he soon falls under the warring influences of his mother Cersei and wife Margaery. In the HBO television adaptation, Tommen Baratheon is portrayed by Callum Wharry from seasons one to two and by Dean-Charles Chapman from seasons four through six.
Tommen Baratheon : Prince Tommen Baratheon is the younger brother of Joffrey and Princess Myrcella and is second in line for the throne. Tommen is Queen Cersei Lannister's youngest son and, like his siblings, he is also the son of Cersei's brother Jaime Lannister, but he is unaware of this, as he believes Robert Baratheon to be his father. Tommen is described as handsome and sweet-natured but weak-willed. Many characters in the narrative believe he would make a better, and more pliant, king than his brother Joffrey. He loves his kittens, and keeps several in both the novels and television show. Tommen is seven years old at the beginning of A Game of Thrones (1996). Tommen Baratheon is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as his mother Cersei Lannister, his uncle Tyrion Lannister, and Sansa Stark. Tommen is mostly a background character in the novels.
Tommen Baratheon : After King Joffrey's death in A Storm of Swords, Tommen is crowned and marries Joffrey's young widow, Margaery Tyrell. Tommen is a submissive child and, as a result, does everything that is asked of him. Thus, Cersei uses him to rule as she likes, though Margaery also begins to manipulate him into resisting his mother.
Tommen Baratheon : Young actor Callum Wharry portrayed Tommen in the first and second season and was then recast with Dean-Charles Chapman from the fourth season until his death in the sixth season.
Ramsay Bolton : Ramsay Bolton, previously known as Ramsay Snow, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1998's A Clash of Kings, Ramsay is the bastard son of Roose Bolton, the lord of the Dreadfort, an ancient fortress in the North of the kingdom of Westeros. He is subsequently mentioned in A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Feast for Crows (2005). He later appears in Martin's A Dance with Dragons (2011). Ramsay is an amoral and vicious sadist who strives to be legitimized as a true Bolton by his father. He is directly responsible for several atrocities in both the novels and television show, including the brutal torture of Theon Greyjoy and the Sack of Winterfell; however, his role as a primary antagonist is greatly expanded in the television adaptation. Ramsay is portrayed by Welsh actor Iwan Rheon in the HBO television adaptation. Rheon has received critical acclaim for his performance, although his character's reception has been more polarized; he is widely considered to be one of the show's most brutal and hated villains.
Ramsay Bolton : Ramsay Bolton is not a point of view character in the novels, and remains mostly in the background. His actions are witnessed and interpreted directly through the eyes of Theon Greyjoy, and indirectly from stories heard by Bran Stark and Davos Seaworth.
Ramsay Bolton : Ramsay Bolton was played by Welsh actor Iwan Rheon in the HBO television adaption of the series of books, who received critical acclaim for his performance. Rheon had previously auditioned for the role of Jon Snow, which he lost to Kit Harington. Ramsay is first mentioned in the show's second season and first appears onscreen in the third, though Rheon is credited as "Boy" until his true identity is revealed in the third-season finale "Mhysa". The circumstances of Ramsay's conception and acknowledgement do not change in the show, although in the show Ramsay's childhood is never examined. His mother died when he was young, but she did raise him initially, just like in the books. When he is torturing Theon Greyjoy, Ramsay recounts "My mother taught me not to throw stones at cripples. But my father taught me to aim for their head!" He also recounts how at the age of eleven, he first encountered the Dreadfort kennelmaster's daughter, Myranda, and is drawn to her fearlessness, eventually taking her as his mistress. He tells her that he plans on wedding her but after his legitimization, he dismisses such promises. Ramsay's dog appears to be a Cane Corso.
Ramsay Bolton : Content in this article was copied from Ramsay Snow at A Wiki of Ice and Fire, which is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 (Unported) (CC-BY-SA 3.0) license.
Roose Bolton : Roose Bolton is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones, where he is depicted by actor Michael McElhatton. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Roose is lord of House Bolton, the second most powerful Northern house behind the Starks. The Boltons are notorious for their cruelty and custom of flaying their enemies. He also appears in A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), and A Dance with Dragons (2011). Roose joins Robb Stark's rebellion as one of his chief lieutenants. However, he secretly orchestrates the Red Wedding alongside Lord Tywin Lannister and Lord Walder Frey, receiving the title of Warden of the North and dominion over the Northern kingdom after personally murdering Robb. His rule is punctuated by unrest and several forces conspire to unseat him.
Roose Bolton : Roose Bolton is played by Michael McElhatton in the HBO television adaption of the series of books. He and the rest of the cast were nominated for Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2014.
Brienne of Tarth : Brienne of Tarth is a fictional character in George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels and its television adaptation, Game of Thrones. She is a prominent point of view character in the novels. Brienne is introduced in the second novel of the series, 1998's A Clash of Kings, as a warrior fighting for the honor of serving in the Kingsguard of Renly Baratheon. She later swears her loyalty to Catelyn Stark and vows to return the captive Jaime Lannister to King's Landing in exchange for Sansa and Arya Stark, whom Catelyn believes are being held by the Lannisters. She additionally appears in A Feast for Crows (2005) and A Dance with Dragons (2011). Because she is a woman, Brienne is barred from serving as a knight, even though she is one of the most honorable and skilled warriors in all of Westeros. Her personal struggle towards honor, justice, and recognition has received significant critical attention, as has her complex relationship with Jaime, and she is one of the more popular characters in both the novels and television show. In the television series, Brienne is portrayed by English actress Gwendoline Christie and is introduced in season two. After appearing as a recurring cast member for two seasons, Christie was promoted to the main cast from season four onwards. Christie has received significant critical praise for her portrayal. For her performance in season three, she was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress on Television and for two Screen Actors Guild Awards, alongside the rest of the cast, for the third and fourth seasons. In 2019, she was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series for her performance in the series's final season.
Gregor Clegane : Gregor Clegane, nicknamed "The Mountain That Rides" or simply "The Mountain", is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. In the books, the character is initially introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones. He subsequently appeared in A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000) and in A Dance with Dragons (2011). A notorious knight and retainer to House Lannister, he is well known for his enormous size, prowess in battle, extremely cruel nature, and uncontrollable temper. He is the older brother of Sandor "The Hound" Clegane who has hated him ever since Gregor gruesomely scarred Sandor by shoving his face into a brazier when they were children. After being mortally wounded in a duel with Oberyn Martell, he is resuscitated by Qyburn via sinister means and becomes member of the Kingsguard and the personal bodyguard of Cersei Lannister. In the HBO television adaptation, Clegane was originally portrayed by Australian actor Conan Stevens in season one, and by Welsh actor Ian Whyte in season two; Icelandic actor and world champion strongman Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson took over the role in season four and continued in the role until the final season.
Gregor Clegane : Ser Gregor Clegane is the head of House Clegane, a landed knight vassal to House Lannister, and is the older brother of Sandor Clegane. His enormous size and strength make him a fearsome warrior (in the novels he is nearly 8 feet (2.4 m)) tall, and weighs over 420 pounds (190 kg)), and he has earned a reputation for violence and brutality. When they were children, Gregor shoved Sandor's face into a brazier for using his toy, gruesomely scarring him. Over the course of his service to Tywin Lannister, he has committed numerous war crimes, most infamously the rape and murder of the Targaryen royal family, but has repeatedly avoided punishment due to House Lannister's power and influence over the Iron Throne. Clegane was one of the first Lannister soldiers to enter King's Landing during its sack at the end of Robert Baratheon's rebellion. He raped and murdered Princess Elia, after murdering her son Aegon by shattering the child's head against a wall, a grudge House Martell still bears 14 years later at the onset of A Game of Thrones. Gregor Clegane is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as Arya Stark and Cersei Lannister. Gregor is mostly a background character in the novels.
Sandor Clegane : Sandor Clegane, nicknamed the Hound, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Sandor is the estranged younger brother of Ser Gregor Clegane from the fictional Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. Sandor serves as King Joffrey Baratheon's personal bodyguard. He subsequently appeared in Martin's A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), and A Feast for Crows (2005). Like his brother, Sandor is regarded as one of the fiercest and strongest fighters in the Seven Kingdoms. His face is marked by gruesome facial burns he received as a child when his brother shoved his face into a brazier; ever since, he has retained a crippling fear of fire, as well as a fierce hatred for his brother. While initially appearing brutal and fatalistic, he later proves to be far more honorable, sympathetic, and compassionate, particularly through his relationships with Sansa and Arya Stark. Sandor is portrayed by Scottish actor Rory McCann in the HBO television adaptation. McCann also narrates the animated "History and Lore" for House Clegane, available in the bonus material on the Blu-Ray releases.
Sandor Clegane : Sandor Clegane, also known as The Hound, is the younger brother of Gregor Clegane and was a retainer to House Lannister. He was regarded as one of Westeros's most dangerous and skilled fighters. His size (in the novels, he is 6'8", or 2 m and over 300 lbs., or 140 kg) and strength makes him an imposing figure, though even he is not as large as his brother Gregor. His visage is distinguished by gruesome burn scars that he received as a child when his brother forced his head into a brazier. Consequently, Clegane fears fire and hates his brother. He is cynical and scornful of a knight's vows and their code of honor, as Gregor is a brutal knight utterly devoid of any morality or even humanity, a sadist who delights and revels in rape, bloodshed, and violence. Clegane was described as a tormented man, driven by anger and hate, suffering from childhood post-traumatic stress disorder, and obsessed with killing his brother.
Gendry : Gendry is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones, where the character is portrayed by English actor Joe Dempsie. First appearing in A Game of Thrones (1996), Gendry is a blacksmith apprentice in King's Landing, and an unacknowledged bastard of King Robert Baratheon. He subsequently appeared in A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Feast for Crows (2005). After Queen Cersei Lannister orders the execution of all of King Robert's bastards, Gendry is forced to flee King's Landing alongside Arya Stark under the protection of Yoren, a recruiter for the Night's Watch. He later joins the outlaw group Brotherhood Without Banners and is knighted by its leader Beric Dondarrion, and becomes a follower of the foreign religion R'hllor.
Gendry : Gendry was born in King's Landing after Robert's Rebellion ended, and is one of sixteen (twenty in the television series) bastard children of King Robert Baratheon. He is 14 years old when introduced in the first book, and is portrayed as tall and very muscled, having blue eyes and thick black hair, very similar to his biological father Robert in youth. He also looks hauntingly like a younger version of Renly Baratheon, though with a squarer jaw, bushier brows and tangled hair, but resembles his biological uncle enough that for a moment Brienne of Tarth almost mistook him for the deceased Renly. Gendry is an intelligent boy despite being born into poverty, but is also stubborn, sullen, suspicious, easily confused and shy around women, and Arya Stark commented that he looks "pained" when he tries to think. Gendry is a biological (though illegitimate) first cousin to Shireen Baratheon, the heiress of House Baratheon on Dragonstone and King Stannis' claim to the Iron Throne. Through Robert's grandmother Princess Rhaelle Targaryen, King Aegon V's youngest daughter, Gendry is actually also a third cousin (once removed) to Rhaegar, Viserys and Daenerys Targaryen. Despite being one of the only four surviving biological children of King Robert (along with Mya Stone, Edric Storm and Bella Rivers), Gendry never knew who his father was, though he did see Robert from afar multiple times and was once nearly trampled by a drunken Robert's horse while playing near the city gate. His mother was reported to have been an alehouse worker who died when Gendry was still a young boy, and all he remembers of her was that she had blonde hair. Later on, Tobho Mott, a master armourer from Qohor working in King's Landing, was offered double the customary fee by a "lord" with concealed identity to take Gendry in as a smith apprentice, but accepted him for free after being impressed by the boy's physique. Gendry turns out to be a talented blacksmith, and likes to spend time polishing a bull head helmet that he proudly made for himself, which earned him the nickname "Bull" by fellow orphan boy Lommy Greenhands.
Gendry : Gendry is not a point of view character in the novels, and his actions are witnessed and interpreted primarily through the eyes of Arya Stark, as well as some descriptions from Eddard Stark and Brienne of Tarth. He has by far the most story arc out of King Robert's children.
Gendry : Gendry is played by Joe Dempsie in the television adaption of the series of books. Explaining how he got cast for the role: When I was cast as Gendry, I didn't have any of the physical attributes the part required. I was astounded that I got the role, to be honest. But David and Dan said, "We need to dye his hair black ... and it'd be great you hit the gym before we start filming." So I was told to get in shape. Dempsie has received positive reviews for his performance as Gendry in the television series. He and the rest of the cast were nominated for Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2014.
Gendry : Martin, George R. R. (September 1996). A Game of Thrones. A Song of Ice and Fire (US hardcover ed.). Bantam Spectra. ISBN 978-0-553-10354-0.
Tormund Giantsbane : Tormund Giantsbane is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in 2000's A Storm of Swords, he is a renowned wildling leader and chief lieutenant of Mance Rayder, the King-Beyond-The-Wall. He subsequently appeared in Martin's A Dance with Dragons. Although initially antagonistic towards Jon Snow and the Night's Watch, he later proves to be a crucial ally in their fight against the White Walkers. Tormund Giantsbane is portrayed by Norwegian actor Kristofer Hivju in the HBO television adaptation, for which he has received positive reviews.
Tormund Giantsbane : Tormund, better known as Tormund Giantsbane or Tormund Thunderfist, is a famous wildling raider. On his massive arms he wears golden bands engraved with runes of the First Men, which have been passed down by his forefathers. Tormund is armored with heavy ringmail taken from a dead Night's Watch ranger. Like most of the wildlings, he is illiterate. He has four sons: Toregg, Torwynd, Dryn and Dormund; and one daughter, Munda. The often jovial Tormund enjoys food and drink, especially ale and mead, and likes cracking dick jokes. He is styled Tall-talker, Horn-blower and Breaker of Ice, Husband to Bears, the Mead-king of Ruddy Hall, Speaker to Gods and Father of Hosts. Mance Rayder named him Horn-blower for the power of Tormund's lungs, as it is said that Tormund can laugh the snow off mountaintops. Although Tormund is said to have slain a giant, he claims to have actually cut open the belly of a sleeping giantess and slept in her for warmth during a winter storm. Tormund claims the giantess, thinking he was a babe, then suckled him for three months in the spring. Tormund also claims to once have drunkenly slept with a bear. Tormund once thought to make himself King-Beyond-the-Wall, but he was defeated by Mance Rayder. He distrusts the men of the Frozen Shore.
Theon Greyjoy : Theon Greyjoy is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Theon is the youngest son and heir of Balon Greyjoy, taken as a ward by Lord Eddard Stark following Balon's failed rebellion. Theon's complex and troubled relationship with both his family and his captors is central to the character's arc throughout the novels and its television adaptation. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Theon subsequently appeared in A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Dance with Dragons (2011), in which he is reintroduced as “Reek”, the tortured victim of Ramsay Bolton. He is one of the major third person points-of-view through which Martin narrates both books. Theon is portrayed by English actor Alfie Allen in the HBO television adaptation.
Theon Greyjoy : Theon Greyjoy is the heir apparent and only living son of Balon Greyjoy. Theon is the narrator for a total of thirteen chapters in the second and fifth novels, A Clash of Kings and A Dance with Dragons. Theon is 19, he is lean and handsome and he has long black hair. He always smiles and he seems to find everything amusing. Ten years before the events of the series, Theon was taken hostage by Eddard Stark. He would have been executed had his father Balon displeased King Robert Baratheon. Theon was raised at Winterfell with the Stark children and developed a close friendship with Robb Stark. As an adult, Theon was arrogant, cocky, and proud until being imprisoned by Ramsay Snow, who is the eldest and bastard son of Roose Bolton. During the imprisonment, Ramsay severely tortured and abused Theon physically and psychologically, forcing him to take the name of “Reek”.
Theon Greyjoy : Theon Greyjoy is played by Alfie Allen in the television adaptation of the series of books.
Theon Greyjoy : Originally auditioning for the role of Jon Snow, English actor Alfie Allen has received critical acclaim for his role as Theon Greyjoy in the TV series, and was nominated for the Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for the 2019 Primetime Emmy Awards. == References ==
High Sparrow : The High Sparrow is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. The High Sparrow first appears in A Feast for Crows (2005) and subsequently appeared in Martin's A Dance with Dragons (2011). He is the de facto leader of the protest 'sparrow' movement that arises from the Faith of the Seven as a result of the carnage inflicted by the War of Five Kings. Although he appears to be humble and compassionate, his demeanor belies his shrewd and unrelenting fanaticism, which often borders on dangerous zealotry. He becomes of central importance to the shadow conflicts at court between Houses Lannister and Tyrell, and is open about his disgust with the corruption and impiety in the capital. His true name is unknown; his title was given mockingly by political opponents as a comparison to the formal leader of the Faith, the High Septon. The character is portrayed by Welsh actor Jonathan Pryce in the HBO television adaptation. The High Sparrow shares many similarities with Girolamo Savonarola, an Italian friar who de facto ruled the Republic of Florence from 1494 to 1498, denouncing clerical corruption, despotic rule and the exploitation of the poor.
High Sparrow : The High Sparrow is a prominent member of the "sparrows", a religious movement formed during the War of the Five Kings, and a septon (priest) in the Faith of the Seven. He is a small, thin, hard-eyed, grey-haired old man with a heavily lined face. He does not wear rich robes or any gold; instead, he wears a simple white wool tunic. The High Sparrow is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as Cersei Lannister. The High Sparrow is mostly a background character in the novels.
High Sparrow : The High Sparrow is played by the Welsh actor Jonathan Pryce in the television adaption of the series of books. Pryce admitted that one of the main reasons he took the role was because of how influential the character is plot-wise. While at first being quite sceptical about "sword and sorcery" shows, he later had a change of heart after his positive experiences on the Game of Thrones sets. Remarking on the character: I quite like the fact that people are going, "Oh, he's a horrible character!" And I'm going, "No! He's one of the good people in Game of Thrones! He's clearing out all the bad people!
Cersei Lannister : Cersei Lannister is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where she is portrayed by actress Lena Headey. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Cersei is a member of House Lannister, one of the wealthiest and most powerful families on the continent of Westeros. She subsequently appears in A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Storm of Swords (2000), and becomes a prominent point of view character beginning with A Feast for Crows (2005). Cersei will continue to be a point-of-view character in the forthcoming volume The Winds of Winter. Cersei is Queen of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros by marriage to King Robert Baratheon, who abuses her throughout their marriage. Her father, Tywin, arranged the marriage after his attempt to betroth her to Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, whom she idolized as a child, failed. Robert took the Throne with the help of the Lannisters when he ended the Targaryen dynasty. Cersei has been involved in an incestuous affair with her twin brother, Jaime, since childhood. All three of Cersei's children are Jaime's, unbeknownst to Robert. The rumored illegitimacy of her children causes a power struggle in the wake of the king's death, known as the War of the Five Kings. Cersei's main character attributes are her lust for power, scheming, transgressive viewpoint, and her love for her children, whom she seeks to protect. She is considered one of the most complex characters in the story. Headey received widespread critical acclaim for her portrayal of the character on the HBO series Game of Thrones. She was nominated for five Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series and a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance. Headey and the rest of the cast were nominated for seven Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series. In season 5 of the series, a young version of the character is portrayed by Nell Williams in a flashback.
Cersei Lannister : Cersei Lannister is played by Lena Headey in the television adaption of the book series. In October 2014, Headey and several other key cast members, all contracted for six seasons of the series, renegotiated their deals to include a potential seventh season and salary increases for seasons 5, 6, and 7. The Hollywood Reporter called the raises "huge", noting that the deal would make the performers "among the highest-paid actors on cable TV". Deadline Hollywood put the number for season 5 at "close to $300,000 an episode" for each actor, and The Hollywood Reporter wrote in June 2016 that the performers would each be paid "upward of $500,000 per episode" for season 7 and the potential season 8. In 2017, Headey became one of the highest paid actors on television and will earn £2 million per episode for the show.
Cersei Lannister : In April 2019, Lena Headey and Peter Dinklage appeared as Cersei and Tyrion Lannister alongside Elmo in a Sesame Street PSA on the importance of being respectful to one another, as part of Sesame Street's "Respect Brings Us Together" campaign. In August 2019, Headey's and Coster-Waldau's likenesses as Cersei and Jaime were used to represent the influencer "Storm Twins" in the Marvel Comics series Spider-Gwen, a duo of similarly incestuous influencer twins who seek to drive Gwen Stacy off of Earth-65 after the twins had seduced, murdered, and replaced their reality's benevolent Doctor Doom.
Cersei Lannister : Cersei Lannister on HBO
Jaime Lannister : Jaime Lannister is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where he is portrayed by Danish actor Nikolaj Coster-Waldau. Jaime becomes a prominent point of view character in the novels beginning with A Storm of Swords (2000). Introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996), Jaime is a knight of the Kingsguard and one of the best swordsmen in the seven kingdoms. He is a member of House Lannister, the wealthiest and one of the most powerful families in the kingdom of Westeros. He is the elder son of Tywin Lannister, twin brother of Cersei, with whom he has a longstanding incestuous relationship and brother of Tyrion. Although Jaime first appears unscrupulous and immoral, he later proves to be more complex, honorable, and sympathetic. His lengthy character development has been praised by critics of the novels and the television show. Jaime is one of the most popular characters in both series versions. Coster-Waldau received critical praise for his portrayal and several award nominations, including a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor on Television, a Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series, People's Choice Awards Favorite TV Anti-Hero, and two Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series nominations. He and the rest of the cast were nominated for five Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series.
Jaime Lannister : In A Game of Thrones (1996), Jaime is introduced as one of the Kingsguard, the royal security detail, the son of the wealthy and powerful Tywin Lannister (the former Hand of the King), and one of the greatest swordsmen in the Seven Kingdoms with few able to match him, such as Barristan Selmy, Garlan Tyrell, Loras Tyrell. Jaime's twin is Cersei, the Queen of Westeros by her marriage to King Robert Baratheon. Jaime is derisively referred to as "the Kingslayer" because he killed the "Mad King" Aerys Targaryen in the coup that put Robert on the Iron Throne. Eric Dodds of TIME described Jaime as "handsome, an incomparably skilled fighter, and disarmingly witty". The New Yorker called the Lannisters "a crowd of high-cheekboned beauties ... who form a family constellation so twisted, charismatic, and cruel that it rivals Flowers in the Attic for blond dysfunction". Lev Grossman wrote for TIME that while Jaime and Cersei's younger brother Tyrion is a grotesque dwarf, "the rest of the Lannisters are stunted too, but on the inside." The Los Angeles Times called Jaime "handsome and unscrupulous", though Dodds noted in 2014: Sure, he's done some of the most despicable things on a show full of despicable things—including but not limited to fathering children by incest, attempting to murder a boy who discovered said incest, and the cold-blooded murder of one of his own cousins—but despite all that, the Kingslayer remains one of Game of Thrones' most popular characters. Darren Franich of Entertainment Weekly noted that in the novels, "[Jaime is] a vaguely villainous minor character in Game of Thrones, then is basically absent from Clash of Kings, and suddenly he becomes a tragic hero in Storm of Swords." In A Game of Thrones, Jaime is not only carrying on an incestuous affair with his twin sister, but he pushes a young Bran Stark out a high window to his likely death after the boy witnesses them in the act. Jaime admits these crimes to Catelyn Stark in A Clash of Kings (1998) and tells her a horrific story of Aerys Targaryen's cruelty. In A Storm of Swords (2000), Jaime initially loathes the female warrior Brienne of Tarth, but both his honor and his reluctant respect for Brienne compel him to lie to their captors to prevent her from being raped. He later explains to Brienne that he killed Aerys because the king had planned to incinerate all of King's Landing and its inhabitants rather than let it fall into Robert's hands. When Jaime is released to be sent back to King's Landing in deference to his father, he first saves Brienne, who has been thrown into a bear pit for the mercenaries' amusement. Martin told Rolling Stone in 2014: One of the things I wanted to explore with Jaime, and with so many of the characters, is the whole issue of redemption. When can we be redeemed? Is redemption even possible? ... When do we forgive people? ... Our society is full of people who have fallen in one way or another ... How many good acts make up for a bad act? ... I don't know the answer, but these are questions worth thinking about. I want there to be a possibility of redemption for us, because we all do terrible things. We should be able to be forgiven. Because if there is no possibility of redemption, what's the answer then? Specifically addressing Jaime's attempted murder of Bran, Martin said: [What] Jaime did [to Bran] is interesting ... Remember, Jaime isn't just trying to kill Bran because he's an annoying little kid. Bran has seen something that is basically a death sentence for Jaime, for Cersei, and their children ... So I've asked people who do have children, "Well, what would you do in Jaime's situation?" They say, "Well, I'm not a bad guy—I wouldn't kill." Are you sure? Never? If Bran tells King Robert, he's going to kill you and your sister-lover, and your three children ... Then many of them hesitate. Probably more people than not would say, "Yeah, I would kill someone else's child to save my own child, even if that other child was innocent." These are the difficult decisions people make, and they're worth examining.
Jaime Lannister : Jaime is portrayed by Danish actor Nikolaj Coster-Waldau in the HBO adaptation Game of Thrones. His casting was announced on August 20, 2009. In October 2014, Coster-Waldau and several other key cast members, all contracted for six seasons of the series, renegotiated their deals to include a potential seventh season and salary increases for seasons five, six, and seven. The Hollywood Reporter called the raises "huge", noting that the deal would make the performers "among the highest-paid actors on cable TV". Deadline Hollywood put the number for season five at "close to $300,000 an episode" for each actor, and The Hollywood Reporter wrote in June 2016 that the performers would each be paid "upward of $500,000 per episode" for seasons seven and the potential eight. In 2017, he became one of the highest paid actors on television and earned £2 million per episode for the show. Matt Fowler of IGN noted in 2013 that "the people who do seem to get redemption arcs on this show are the villains". Over the course of the first three seasons, the series transitioned Jaime from an obvious villain to an antihero of sorts. Eric Dodds of Time wrote that Jaime had become "a complex, bizarrely likable character". Andrew Romano of The Daily Beast explained: But Jaime wasn't a black-and-white baddie for long. In fact, GoT spent the next three seasons transforming him into a pretty sympathetic character. The turning point was when Jaime was captured and chained up by the Starks—an ordeal that humbled him, humanized him, and eventually left him without a sword hand, struggling to find a new, post-Kingslayer identity for himself. Sure, Jaime could still slaughter his own cousin to escape captivity. But he could also rescue his sidekick Brienne of Tarth from a bear. And pledge to return the Stark girls to their mother, Catelyn. And refuse to kill his brother Tyrion on Cersei's behalf. And so on. He was a compromised, conflicted asshole—but he was basically trying to do the right thing. Fowler wrote that Jaime's adventure with Brienne was "the best storyline of the season" in Season 3, aside from the Red Wedding. Jaime's apparent rape of Cersei in the fourth season episode "Breaker of Chains" created controversy among fans and journalists, who debated the show's depiction of sexual violence against women as well as Jaime's character development. The showrunners never commented on what their intention with the scene actually was. The cast members involved initially gave only vague comments, but after the fourth season was released on Blu-ray and the showrunners avoided making any comment about the scene in it (it is conspicuously the only episode which has no commentary track), both Coster-Waldau and Headey publicly stated that the scene was never intended to portray rape at all – they were given no instructions to this effect (such as in the script) nor did they play it that way, and apparently the scene was just edited very confusingly. In the source novel A Storm of Swords, the sex between Jaime and Cersei in the equivalent scene is consensual. Several critics argued that the TV series' change damaged Jaime's redemption arc. Dodds noted that the episode "irreparably changes the way we see Jaime Lannister". Alyssa Rosenberg of The Washington Post wrote: What happens next dramatically complicates the work Game of Thrones has done to make Jaime a more explicable, even sympathetic character, given what we learned of his reasons for killing the king he was sworn to protect. Jaime has experienced profound losses over the last two seasons. His hand and his identity as a fighter have been taken from him. His son has been murdered. His father, a toxic, commanding man has returned to his life. And what Cersei is asking of Jaime is that he remove one of the few remaining things that gives him happiness, the little brother who makes him feel better about his hand, from existence. To assuage her pain and grief, Cersei is asking Jaime to inflict more pain on himself ... But his response is not to stop loving her, not to stop believing that he is victim to the gods. Instead, Jaime rapes his sister, passing that sense of unendurable pain on to her. He must know that this is the worst possible way that he could hurt her. Jaime knew that Robert raped Cersei ... Not only does raping Cersei remind his sister of her repeated, humiliating violation, Jaime is poisoning their own relationship, the thing that had been Cersei’s antidote to the miseries of her marriage. It is an exceptionally cruel thing for Jaime to do. Coster-Waldau said, "If you look closer there are those moments where she—well, I haven't seen the finished edit, of course—but we tried to have it where she goes into it then she pulls away, she goes in then she pulls away, but of course he is forcing himself." Later he and his co-star Lena Headey (Cersei) spoke with Entertainment Weekly during the filming of season 5, admitting that they were never directed or intended to film a rape scene. Headey stated: It’s that terrible thing as a woman—talking about something as horrendous as rape and dismissing it, which I’m not. But we never discussed it as that. It was a woman in grief for her dead child, and the father of the child—who happens to be her brother—who never really acknowledged the children is standing with her. We’ve all experienced grief. There’s a moment of wanting to fill a void, and that is often very visceral, physical. That, for me, is where she was at. There was an emotional block, and [her brother] was just a bit of a drug for her. The Jaime-Cersei scene was subsequently ignored for the rest of Season 4 and the rest of the series. Writing on website TheMarySue.com, Rebecca Pahle claimed that not referring to the scene again, instead of as a long and developed subplot, trivialized rape—if, in fact, it was ever the actual intention to portray it as a rape scene. Pahle argued that in real life a woman would be traumatized by being raped, not act as if nothing had happened immediately afterwards. Pahle said that even if the show's creators did not intend it as a rape scene, ignoring questions about the scene and hoping they would go away over time was insensitive to the audience. In 2016, Christopher Hooton wrote for The Independent: Game of Thrones is full of characters who are very sure of themselves ... Except Jaime Lannister, who was given a considerable amount of screen time this week in order to establish a little more complexity in his character. Thus far in the show his character arc has gone from "massive jerk", to "still a massive jerk but admirable in how he withstands imprisonment" to "maybe he's starting to redeem himself". This third strand had waned a little in season 6 as he returned to Cersei's side, but showed glimpses of returning in episode 8 as he was reunited with Brienne, about the only character who can appeal to his sense of guilt and honour.
Tyrion Lannister : Tyrion Lannister is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where he is portrayed by American actor Peter Dinklage. Introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996), Tyrion is a prominent point of view character in the series, having the most viewpoint chapters in the first five published novels. He is one of a few prominent characters not included in A Feast for Crows (2005) but returned in A Dance with Dragons (2011), and is confirmed to appear in the forthcoming sixth novel The Winds of Winter. Tyrion developed from a character concept Martin had while writing the 1981 novel Windhaven. He is Martin's favorite character in the series. Tyrion is the youngest child of Lord Tywin Lannister, the patriarch of House Lannister, the wealthiest family in the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. A dwarf whose birth killed his mother, Tywin and his sister Cersei despise him as a result. Tyrion soothes his perceived inadequacies with wit and self-indulgence, also using his status as a Lannister and the support of his brother Jaime to better his own position. Tyrion has been called one of the author's finest creations and most popular characters by The New York Times. The popularity of the character led Martin and Bantam Books to publish The Wit & Wisdom of Tyrion Lannister (2013), an illustrated collection of Tyrion quotes from the novels. Dinklage has received widespread critical acclaim for his performance as Tyrion. He won four Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series and a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Series, Miniseries, or Television Film. He is the only Game of Thrones actor to win an Emmy award and the only actor to receive a nomination for each season.
Tyrion Lannister : Executive producers/writers David Benioff and D. B. Weiss had pitched the idea of adapting Martin's series for television to HBO in March 2006, and the network secured the rights in January 2007. The first actor cast was Peter Dinklage as Tyrion in May 2009. Benioff and Weiss later noted that the funny and "incredibly smart" Dinklage was their first choice for the role, as the actor's "core of humanity, covered by a shell of sardonic dry wit, is pretty well in keeping with the character." Unfamiliar with the source material, Dinklage was cautious in his first meeting with the producers; as a dwarf, "he wouldn't play elves or leprechauns" and – choosy about genre roles – he had just come from portraying the dwarf Trumpkin in 2008's The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian. Benioff and Weiss told Dinklage that the character was "a different kind of fantasy little person," or in the actor's words, "No beard, no pointy shoes, a romantic, real human being." Dinklage signed on to play Tyrion before the meeting was half over, in part because "They told me how popular he was." Martin said of Dinklage's casting, "If he hadn't accepted the part, oh, boy, I don't know what we would have done." Benioff added, "When I read George's books, I decided Tyrion Lannister was one of the great characters in literature. Not just fantasy literature – literature! A brilliant, caustic, horny, drunken, self-flagellating mess of a man. And there was only one choice to play him." In October 2014, Dinklage and several other key cast members, all contracted for six seasons of the series, renegotiated their deals to include a potential seventh season and salary increases for seasons five, six, and seven. The Hollywood Reporter called the raises "huge", noting that the deal would make the performers "among the highest-paid actors on cable TV". Deadline Hollywood put the number for season five at "close to $300,000 an episode" for each actor, and The Hollywood Reporter wrote in June 2016 that the performers would each be paid "upward of $500,000 per episode" for seasons seven and the potential eight. In 2017, Dinklage became one of the highest paid actors on television and earned £2,000,000 per episode.
Tyrion Lannister : "A Game of Thrones: Analysis of Tyrion Lannister". SparkNotes. Retrieved August 4, 2014. "A Clash of Kings: Analysis of Tyrion Lannister". SparkNotes. Retrieved August 4, 2014. "A Storm of Swords: Analysis of Tyrion Lannister". SparkNotes. Retrieved August 4, 2014. Tyrion Lannister on IMDb
Tywin Lannister : Tywin Lannister is a fictional character in the fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American novelist George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation, Game of Thrones. He is introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996) and subsequently appears in A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Storm of Swords (2000). Tywin was portrayed by English actor Charles Dance in the HBO series to critical acclaim. Tywin is the ruthless patriarch of House Lannister of Casterly Rock and father to twins Cersei and Jaime, and Tyrion. He is the Warden of the West and the Lord Paramount of the Westerlands and was twice the Hand of the King, making him one of the most powerful political figures in Westerosi history. His cruelty towards his youngest son, Tyrion, whom Tywin has despised since Tyrion's childhood for being a dwarf and killing his wife in childbirth, is a primary influence on Tyrion's character arc in both the novels and television show. Edward I served as an inspiration for Tywin.
Tywin Lannister : Tywin is Lord of Casterly Rock, Shield of Lannisport, and Warden of the West. Born heir apparent to Lord Tytos Lannister, who was perceived as a weak and ineffectual leader, often ridiculed by his bannermen, and was known as "the toothless lion", Tywin developed an early distrust of mockery and laughter. When the Lannister bannermen of Houses Reyne and Tarbeck eventually revolted against the Lannisters' rule, the 19-year-old Tywin led the Lannister army in defeating the rebellious vassals by exterminating their Houses. The song The Rains of Castamere was written as a tribute to the event. Tywin eventually married his first cousin, Joanna. When she died giving birth to their dwarf son Tyrion, it is said that "the best part of Tywin died with her". He never remarried. Tywin strongly resents Tyrion for Joanna's death. When Tywin discovered that the young Tyrion had secretly eloped and married Tysha, a peasant's daughter, he had Tyrion's marriage forcefully annulled, telling him that the entire love affair was a plot by Jaime to get Tyrion to lose his virginity, his love being nothing more than a hired prostitute. Tywin then had his guards gang-rape Tysha in front of Tyrion and forced Tyrion to rape her last. When Aerys II Targaryen became King of Westeros, he appointed Tywin Hand of the King, a position regarded as deputy and second-in-command to the King, making Tywin the second-most powerful man in the realm. Over the years, as Aerys became increasingly paranoid, he stopped trusting in Tywin, believing him to have become too powerful. He appointed Tywin's eldest son Jaime to the kingsguard, robbing Tywin of his preferred heir. After that, Tywin resigned as Hand of the King and returned to Casterly Rock. During Robert Baratheon's rebellion, Tywin remained neutral until Robert had all but won the war. He then captured King's Landing through treachery and ordered the murder of the royal family before Ned Stark could capture the city. Fearing Tywin's wrath, the Mad King ordered Jaime to kill his father and commanded the city of King's Landing to be burned down with wildfire. Instead, Jaime murdered Aerys, betraying his vow to protect the king and earning the hatred of Westeros, despite saving the city's population. Following the war, Tywin agreed to a marriage between his daughter Cersei and the new King Robert Baratheon, who pardoned Jaime and allowed him to continue his service as a member of the Kingsguard. Tywin returned to Casterly Rock to rule the Westerlands. At the beginning of the series, Tywin is described as a broad-shouldered man in his fifties with thin but muscled arms. After he had started going bald, he began shaving his head but grew out bushy golden side-whiskers. He is said to have pale green eyes flecked with gold. Tywin Lannister is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted mainly through the eyes of his estranged dwarf son, Tyrion Lannister.
Tywin Lannister : Charles Dance, who played Tywin Lannister in the first four seasons of the television adaptation, received widespread acclaim for his performance. Clive James described his portrayal as "not only the best role of its kind that Dance has ever had; it is the best role of its kind that anyone has ever had". == References ==
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire saga features a large cast of characters. The series follows three interwoven plotlines: a dynastic war for control of Westeros by several families; the rising threat of the undead White Walkers beyond the northern border of Westeros; and the ambition of Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled heir of the previous ruling dynasty. In Martin's fictional world, the Great Houses of Westeros represent the Seven Kingdoms which exist on the continent: the North, the Iron Islands, the Vale of Arryn, the Westerlands, the Stormlands, the Reach, and Dorne. A massive wall of ice and old magic separates the Seven Kingdoms from the largely unmapped area in the most northern portion of the continent. Each chapter is narrated in the third-person limited point of view through the eyes of a single character. Beginning with nine POV characters in A Game of Thrones (1996), a total of thirty-one such characters have narrated over the course of the first five volumes of the series.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Stark is described as one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and the principal house of the North. Its seat is at Winterfell, one of the oldest castles in the Seven Kingdoms. Its coat of arms displays a grey direwolf running on a white field, and its words are Winter is Coming. Bastards born in the North are given the surname "Snow". House Stark had ruled as the Kings in the North for thousands of years until House Targaryen conquered Westeros, whereafter the Starks were known as the Lords of Winterfell and Wardens of the North. For prizing honor and devotion to duty, House Stark is the closest of the noble houses to heroism. Descended from Bran the Builder, the architect of the Wall, House Stark is the chief First Men dynasty in Westeros due to their successful repulsion of the Andal invasion and became the ruling house in the North after defeating the Barrow Kings and slowly uniting the North into one kingdom, contesting for dominance with House Bolton of the Dreadfort, the second-most powerful Northern house with a sinister reputation for their flaying tradition. Their expanding dominion would also repel incursions of pirates and raiders, and secure control of the Neck through their vassals of House Reed. They would also gain a new vassal from the Reach after House Manderly was exiled, granting them White Harbor in exchange for protection against piracy. House Stark would ultimately unite the North and drive the ironborn away, making enemies with House Hoare, and a new vassal in House Mormont of Bear Island, just as the Andals arrived in Westeros and began conquering every kingdom the First Men had built and converting them to the Faith of the Seven. The Starks made peace with the Boltons and finally unified the North and began opposing the Andals as one force instead of individually like the rest of the First Men, sacking Andalos and driving them back from the fortress of Moat Cailin. They would lose their strength at sea after a failed voyage across the Sunset Sea ended in all their ships being torched. House Stark would also aid the Night's Watch several times against wildling raids, defeating many Kings-beyond-the-Wall, and forming a second branch, called House Karstark. During Aegon's conquest of Westeros, the Starks intended to oppose the Targaryens, unwilling to bow to an outsider, but King Torrhen Stark knelt after hearing of the scorching of Harrenhal and the devastating outcome of the Field of Fire caused by the Targaryen dragons, becoming the first Warden of the North, and had a marriage alliance with House Arryn to keep the realm together. Over the course of the novels, the Starks are scattered by the War of the Five Kings, and the fate of the House remains uncertain, as most characters believe that all the legitimate Stark sons are dead.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : In Martin's fictional universe, House Targaryen was the ruling house of the Seven Kingdoms for nearly 300 years, holding royal court in King's Landing. Its coat of arms shows a red, three-headed dragon breathing fire on a black field, and its words are Fire and Blood. The Targaryens originally came from Valyria on the continent of Essos, one of forty dragonlord families in the Valyrian Freehold, but not the most powerful. Before Valyria was destroyed, the Targaryens left for Dragonstone, the westernmost outpost of their empire. A century after the Valyrian "Doom", Aegon I Targaryen was approached by an alliance of some of the Free Cities against Volantis, Valyria's oldest colony, who sought to rebuild the Freehold under their rule, which Aegon consented to before defeating Volantis with his dragon, Balerion. With the Valyrian Freehold broken, Aegon turned west towards Westeros, intent on uniting the Seven Kingdoms under one ruler, with Dragonstone being the perfect staging point for his conquest, due to having deep waters for his fleet and within range of the continent. With the aid of his sister-wives, Rhaenys and Visenya, the Targaryens, using their three dragons, successfully conquered six of the Seven Kingdoms by destroying defiant houses and making subjects of submissive ones, with the seventh one peacefully joining the realm through marriage. Aegon built the Iron Throne with his enemies' swords and his dragon's flame, building the Red Keep as his throne room and King's Landing as his new capital. The Targaryen dragons were the last known to exist and died out long before the events of A Game of Thrones. People of Targaryen ancestry, referred to as "blood of the dragon", tend to have silver-blonde hair and amethyst eyes. Fifteen years before the events of the series, the Targaryens were deposed in Robert's Rebellion, with the last two fleeing to Essos.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Lannister is described as one of the Major Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and the principal house of the Westerlands. Its seat is at Casterly Rock and they are also given the title Wardens of the West. Its coat of arms displays a golden lion rampant on a crimson field, and its words are 'Hear Me Roar!' The Lannisters began as a First Men dynasty descended from the legendary trickster Lann the Clever, who swindled their traditional seat of Casterly Rock of House Casterly, ruling the Westerlands as Kings of the Rock ever since. They also branched into the nearby city of Lannisport and gained the Reynes of Castamere as a vassal after defeating the Hooded King. The Lannisters would become an Andal bloodline, under a First Man name after the Andal invasion, where they made alliances through marriages and wards. Like many Houses, the Lannisters kept a Valyrian steel blade as an ancestral heirloom, naming it Brightroar, which was lost after King Tommen II Lannister left for Valyria with it, and never returned. The Lannisters would stand with House Gardener against House Targaryen's conquest of Westeros, only to subject their combined armies to annihilation in the Field of Fire, after which King Loren Lannister surrendered and the Lannisters became the Wardens of the West.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : In the book series, House Baratheon is the youngest of the great houses of the Seven Kingdoms and the principal house of The Stormlands. It was founded by Orys, the supposed bastard half-brother of the first Targaryen king. Under Robert, House Baratheon occupies the Iron Throne in King's Landing, with his younger brothers Stannis and Renly ruling Dragonstone and the ancestral seat Storm's End, respectively. The Baratheon coat of arms displays a black stag on a field of gold; a crown was added after Robert Baratheon took the Iron Throne. The house motto is Ours is the Fury. Bastards born in the Stormlands are generally given the surname "Storm".
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Arryn is described as one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and is the principal house in the Vale. It is descended from Kings of Mountain and Vale. Its main seat is at the Eyrie, a small castle atop of a mountain and reputed to be impregnable, where they are the Wardens of the East. Its coat of arms displays a white moon-and-falcon on a sky blue field, and its words are As High as Honor. Bastards born in the Vale are generally given the surname "Stone". Jon Arryn was the head of the Arryn family until he was poisoned shortly before A Game of Thrones. His only child, Robert "Sweetrobin" Arryn, became Lord of the Vale with Lysa Tully acting as regent.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Greyjoy is one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms in Martin's fictional universe and is the principal noble house on the Iron Islands, home to the Ironborn. Its seat is on Pyke. Its coat of arms displays a golden kraken on a black field, and its words are We Do Not Sow. Bastards born in the Iron Islands are given the surname "Pyke". The Greyjoys became Lords Paramount of the Iron Islands after House Targaryen conquered the Seven Kingdoms and allowed the Ironborn to choose who would have primacy over them. Balon Greyjoy is the current Lord of the Iron Islands. He has two surviving children, his only daughter, Asha, and Theon.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : In Martin's fictional world, House Martell is one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and is the ruling house of the kingdom of Dorne. Its seat is the castle of Sunspear. Its coat of arms displays a gold spear piercing a red sun on an orange field, and its words are Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken. Bastards born in Dorne are generally given the surname "Sand". Dorne, along with House Martell, is culturally, ethnically, and politically distinct from the rest of the kingdoms. The rulers of Dorne are styled Prince or Princess because Dorne resisted direct conquest and joined the rest of the Seven Kingdoms through marriage. House Martell was an Andal house that was founded in Dorne during the Andal invasion, where they defeated the ruling First Men houses like the Wades and the Shells, but remained as vassals of other kings like those of Houses Jordayne, Allyrion, and Yronwood while maintaining their own territory. House Martell would rise to prominence with the arrival of the Rhoynish warrior-queen Nymeria in Dorne, along with the remnants of the Rhoynish people, fleeing the wrath of the Valyrian Freehold from the Rhoynish Wars. Lord Mors Martell wed Nymeria and used their combined strength to subdue all his rivals and unify Dorne into one principality. Their marriage would also see the Martells take up Rhoynish customs in place of Andal ones, with much of their civilization, such as the Spear Tower and the Tower of the Sun built in Rhoynish fashion. The Martells of Sunspear, along with Dorne, stood out in the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros as the only kingdom to resist Aegon Targaryen's conquest, with the Dornish resorting to guerilla warfare instead of fielding large armies (to avoid another Field of Fire) and hiding in strong palaces (to avoid the Burning of Harrenhal), assaulting the Targaryen armies when the dragons vanished and escaping whenever they took to the sky. House Martell secured a great Dornish victory against the Targaryens by killing Meraxes, along with Queen Rhaenys, with a scorpion.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Tully is one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms in the fictional book series written by George R. R. Martin and is the principal house in the Riverlands. Its seat is at Riverrun. Its coat of arms displays a leaping silver trout on a field of rippling blue and red stripes, and its words are Family, Duty, Honor. Bastards born in the Riverlands are generally given the surname "Rivers". When House Targaryen invaded Westeros, Lord Tully was among the first to welcome the invaders. In return, the Targaryens made House Tully the principal House of the Riverlands.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : House Tyrell is described as one of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms and is the principal noble house in the Reach. Its seat is at Highgarden where they reside as the Wardens of the South. Its coat of arms displays a golden rose on a green field, and its words are Growing Strong. Bastards born in the Reach are generally given the surname "Flowers". When the former rulers of the Reach, House Gardener, were killed in battle against House Targaryen, the Targaryens raised the Tyrells from stewards of Highgarden to Lords of Highgarden. Because House Florent had a better claim to Highgarden, the Tyrells are often seen as "upjumped stewards" by the lords of the Reach and other Great Houses; however, the women of the Tyrell household are noted for being shrewd and clever leaders.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : The Royal Court at King's Landing is mostly composed of the King's Small Council and his Kingsguard, the seven knights sworn to protect the king and his family. All members of the Small Council, except for the Grand Maester, are appointed and dismissed by the king or The Hand.
List of A Song of Ice and Fire characters : A sourced list of GRRM's pronunciations, hosted at Westeros.org HBO's official pronunciation guide for Game of Thrones characters
Arianne Martell : Arianne Nymeros Martell is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin. She is a member of House Martell and the heir to the desert kingdom of Dorne. Arianne is first mentioned in A Game of Thrones (1996) and first appears in A Feast for Crows (2005). The character also appears in A Dance with Dragons (2011) and will appear in the forthcoming volume The Winds of Winter. Arianne is the first introduced person of color to serve as a point of view character in the book series and has been positively received as a strong and complex female character. As a result of her storyline in A Feast for Crows, which deals with Arianne's struggle to subvert the patriarchal system of Westeros, she has sometimes been described as a "feminist icon". Arianne was controversially cut from the television adaptation Game of Thrones, where her role was given to Ellaria Sand but the overall Dornish storyline drastically altered.
Arianne Martell : == References ==
Oberyn Martell : Oberyn Nymeros Martell, nicknamed the Red Viper, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation, Game of Thrones, where he is portrayed by Chilean and American actor Pedro Pascal. Introduced in 2000's A Storm of Swords, Oberyn is the younger brother of Doran Martell, from the desert kingdom of Dorne. Unlike his sickly and pensive brother, Oberyn is notorious for both his dangerous and unpredictable nature and his affinity for poisons, for which he earned his nickname. He is subsequently sporadically mentioned in A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. Since his brother is sickly, he travels to King's Landing in order to claim the Dornish seat on the small council, as well as to seek vengeance for his sister Elia Martell's death at the hands of Ser Gregor Clegane, whom he suspects acted directly on orders from Tywin Lannister.
Oberyn Martell : Oberyn Martell is the younger brother of Prince Doran Martell, the ruler of the southern principality of Dorne. He is a hotheaded, forceful, and lustful man with a quick wit and a barbed tongue. He is a formidable fighter whose "legend was fearsome" and is nicknamed the "Red Viper" due to his preference for red clothing, as well as the rumor of his use of poisoned weapons in duels. Tywin Lannister described Oberyn as "always been half-mad"; Oberyn's brother Doran has described him as "ever the viper", "deadly, dangerous, unpredictable", and "no man dared tread on him", and Oberyn himself admitted being a "bloodthirsty man". Oberyn was also responsible for the crippling of Willas Tyrell, the heir of House Tyrell of Highgarden, during a joust, though Willas never blamed Oberyn for the accident and the two remained friends. When Oberyn was no more than sixteen years old, he was found in bed with the paramour of old Lord Edgar Yronwood, who challenged Oberyn in a duel. The fight was only limited to drawing first blood and finished after both men took cuts, but Oberyn soon recovered while Lord Yronwood died of a festered wound, and it was rumored that Oberyn used a poisoned blade. In order to make peace with House Yronwood, Doran sent his own son Quentyn Martell to Yronwood as a ward and had Oberyn sent away to Oldtown and then overseas to Lys in temporary exile. Afterward, Oberyn traveled the world, served in the famous sellsword company Second Sons before founding a company of his own, and briefly studied poisons and dark arts as a novice at the Citadel, managing to obtain six links of the maester's chain before quitting due to boredom. He is bisexual and has eight illegitimate daughters, collectively known as the "Sand Snakes". He was very close to his older sister Elia and consequently seeks revenge upon Ser Gregor Clegane for her death.
Oberyn Martell : == References ==
Melisandre : Melisandre of Asshai is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. She is a priestess of the god R'hllor (also called the Red God or the Lord of Light) from the continent Essos and a close advisor to King Stannis Baratheon in his campaign to take the Iron Throne. She is often nicknamed the Red Woman, due to the color of her hair and clothes, and has mysterious powers over fire and shadow. She is a prominent example of Martin's use of magic within the story, and is the source of several important prophecies that guide the narrative. Introduced in A Clash of Kings (1998), Melisandre has come to Westeros to propagate her faith in the Red God. She subsequently appeared in Martin's A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Dance with Dragons (2011). Melisandre is not a point-of-view character in the first four novels. Her actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other characters, such as Davos Seaworth and Jon Snow. In the fifth novel A Dance with Dragons, she has a single point-of-view chapter. George R. R. Martin stated she will return as a viewpoint character in future novels. In the HBO television adaptation, Melisandre is portrayed by Dutch actress Carice van Houten who received a nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series for her performance.
Melisandre : Melisandre is introduced in the prologue of the second book, A Clash of Kings (1998), and reappears in the third book, A Storm of Swords (2000), as a background character and is mostly narrated through the viewpoints of Davos Seaworth and later Jon Snow. She becomes a point-of-view character in A Dance with Dragons (2011) with a single viewpoint chapter. Author George R. R. Martin at that time confirmed that Melisandre would return as a viewpoint character in the upcoming sixth book The Winds of Winter.
Missandei : Missandei, also known as Missandei of Naath, is a fictional character in the American television series Game of Thrones and the fantasy novel series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. Missandei is a former slave who comes into the service of Daenerys Targaryen during the latter's conquest of Essos. She serves as Daenerys' interpreter and is one of her most trusted counselors throughout the series. Missandei is portrayed by Nathalie Emmanuel in the HBO television adaptation, where her role is greatly expanded from that in the books.
Missandei : Missandei was played by the British actress Nathalie Emmanuel in the television adaptation. Her performance was nominated for multiple Screen Actors Guild Awards, as well as an Empire Award. Her portrayal of Missandei had many loyal fans, who would later react negatively to the character's death in Season 8. Emmanuel has discussed the importance of her character to fans, noting in particular the importance of portraying a strong woman of color in a successful television show. She has also discussed Missandei's romance with Grey Worm, calling it "endearing" and remarking on the pleasure of working with co-star Jacob Anderson.
Jorah Mormont : Jorah Mormont is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation, Game of Thrones. Introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996), Jorah is a knight in exile, the disgraced former lord of Bear Island, and the only son of Jeor Mormont, the honorable lord commander of the Night's Watch. Jorah subsequently appeared in Martin's A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), and A Dance with Dragons (2011). After fleeing Westeros, Jorah pledges fealty to Daenerys Targaryen and, over the course of both the novels and the television show, becomes her closest and most loyal companion; Jorah's passionate yet unrequited love of Daenerys is central to the character's arc in both the novels and television show. He is portrayed as a skilled warrior whose knowledge of the peoples and customs of Essos proves invaluable to Daenerys' journeys. Jorah is portrayed by the Scottish actor Iain Glen in the HBO television adaptation.
Jorah Mormont : Jorah Mormont is portrayed by Scottish actor Iain Glen in the television adaption of the series of books.
Jorah Mormont : The character of Ser Jorah Mormont has been summarized as a "brave warrior" and "wise military adviser". BuzzFeed reviewer Jamie Jirak saw Jorah Mormont as "the best man in Westeros" and, in the later part of his development, a selfless and honorable character, and a soft man based on showing emotions. She praised the portrayal by Ian Glen in the TV series as "sexy" and "way hotter than he is in the books." She also rated the scene where Mormont asked Daenerys for forgiveness as "the most heartbreaking moment in the series." Estelle Paranque saw parallels between Jorah Mormont and Francis Walsingham in their roles of advisors. She also pointed out that the "striking major difference that cannot be overlooked is the fact that Mormont is madly in love with Daenerys whereas there is no record of such romantic feelings regarding Walsingham and the Tudor queen [Elizabeth I]. However, both men are deeply committed to the queen's welfare and security." Cyrille Sardais and Marine Agogué saw Mormont's development from spy for her enemies to "showing unparalleled devotion to Daenerys" as the best example of her charismatic influence on her supporters. Jorah Mormont has been titled by fans as "Ser Friendzone" due to his unrequited love for Daenerys. In comparison to Daario, who is successful in winning her affection through "clumsy" seduction, it is regarded as unfair that Mormont is relegated to the role of friend despite his dedicated engagement on her behalf. Together with the troubled relationships to his two wifes in his past, this makes Mormont a tragic hero with regard to romance, while the conflict between loyality to his previous employer, Varys, and to Daenerys does so on a moral level. Looking at mythological archetypes according to Joseph Campbell, Mark Klapproth et al. defined Jorah as "the dishonored knight, because he strives for salvation - similar to Lancelot from Arthurian legend or Ivanhoe in the novel by Walter Scott." The series of bad decisions which lead to Mormont's downfall are understandable to the viewer, being based on covering up facts to avoid negative consequences. In combination with his inner conflict, Jorah appears "deeply human and thus an important identification figure" and a fan favorite. When applying Campbell's template of the Hero's Journey to Daenerys Targaryen, Kenzo John Carlo A. Calahong et al. found that Jorah Mormont conforms to the archetypal categories of the Mentor, by teaching and protecting her, and the Ally, by steadfastly supporting her up to fighting to his death for her. Mormont also represents one of the obstacles on the heroine's Road of Trials, as she has to show "her ability to be merciful while a kind and just queen" when discovering his initial allegiance to her enemies. == References ==
Daario Naharis : Daario Naharis is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in A Storm of Swords (2000), Daario is the leader of a mercenary group from the continent of Essos called the Stormcrows. He subsequently appeared in Martin's A Dance with Dragons (2011). Daario was portrayed by the English actor Ed Skrein and then by the Dutch actor Michiel Huisman in the HBO television adaptation.
Daario Naharis : Daario is a confident and seductive handsome and young warrior, and the commander of the Stormcrows, a company of sellswords comprising 500 mounted mercenaries. He is an efficient killer, bloody and ruthless, although entirely devoted to Daenerys Targaryen. Nothing has been revealed of Daario's background in the books, save for his Tyroshi heritage.
Daario Naharis : Daario Naharis is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, especially Daenerys Targaryen. Daario is mostly a background character in the novels.
Daario Naharis : In his first three appearances in season 3 of the television adaptation of the books, Daario Naharis is portrayed by the English actor Ed Skrein. Throughout the remainder of the series, he is portrayed by the Dutch actor Michiel Huisman. The reason for the change of actor was initially said to be because Skrein took on a role in the film The Transporter Refueled. However Skrein subsequently stated that the change was due to "politics". Both actors later starred together as enemies in 2023's Rebel Moon and its 2024 sequel. == References ==
Night King : The Night King is a fictional character appearing in the HBO high fantasy television series Game of Thrones, based on George R. R. Martin's novel series A Song of Ice and Fire. He is depicted as the leader and the first of the White Walkers, having existed since the age of the First Men, and is the most dangerous and powerful of his race. The Night King is an original creation of the television adaptation, thus far having no counterpart in the novels upon which the show is based. The Night King was portrayed by British-American actor Richard Brake in seasons 4 and 5 and then by Slovak actor and stuntman Vladimir Furdik in seasons 6 to 8.
Night King : In Game of Thrones, the Night King is physically distinguished from the other White Walkers by his "crown" of pointy, frosty horns.
Night King : The "Night King", as presented in the show, has not appeared in A Song of Ice and Fire. In the novels, the title "Night's King" is given to the long-ago legendary 13th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch (generations after the Long Night), who supposedly married a female White Walker and led the Night's Watch to commit atrocities. Regarding whether the character in the television series is the same as the one in the novels, Martin said, "As for the Night's King (the form I prefer), in the books he is a legendary figure, akin to Lann the Clever and Brandon the Builder, and no more likely to have survived to the present day than they have."
Night King : Makeup artist Barrie Gower said the Night King used mostly practical prosthetic, but also incorporates some visual effects (VFX) to create a more icy look and feel. Gower said about the character's eyes: "The effects department alters the eyes in post-production. They give them that blue-glowy hue to them, which we can't really achieve with contact lenses." With regard to the overall prosthetic, "they've added this sort of icy layer over the top of him to create this—it's something incredibly difficult to achieve practically, prosthetics are cast in a translucent rubber, which can only give you so much of that icy quality, so visual effects help augment it a little bit further to give it more dimension." In the fourth and fifth season, the Night King was portrayed by Richard Brake, with a head mold of Brake being created in order to accurately mold the prosthetic to his face. In the sixth season he was portrayed by Vladimir Furdik after Brake was forced to drop out due to scheduling conflicts stemming from his participation in the TV series The Bastard Executioner. The White Walker army was first shot in front of a green screen in Magheramorne quarry, and according to a piece in The Hollywood Reporter "A scan was taken from a drone and used as the basis for a CG model of the location, which was augmented with VFX and joined with volcanic hills that were photographed in Iceland." Crowd replication was used to create the 1,000-man army, with special effects supervisor Joe Bauer saying "It's scans of those actors in the makeup and costumes, with variations we used to make a digital army that extends up onto the hills." Bauer also noted that VFX were used to create the weather conditions in the scene, noting "It's wind, mist, fog and heavy atmosphere that you'd get in a marine layer. The dramatic value is to say something's wrong; it's a mystery what they are facing. The temperature drops, and our characters can see their breath. The weather obscures their vision." Spain-based El Ranchito, one of several special effects companies used by Game of Thrones, was responsible for the White Walker army shots.
Night King : Dark Horse produced a Night King bust in March 2016, which was followed by an 8-inch Night King figure by Dark Horse Deluxe in late 2016. Funko also released a "Night King" POP! figure that same year.
Night King : Content in this article was copied from Night King at Game of Thrones Wiki, which is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 (Unported) (CC-BY-SA 3.0) license.
Osha (A Song of Ice and Fire) : Osha is a fictional character created by George R. R. Martin, appearing in the A Song of Ice and Fire series, and in its HBO television adaptation, Game of Thrones. In the television series, she was portrayed by Natalia Tena. In the novels, Osha serves as a relatively minor character who continuously helps the Stark children, Bran and Rickon, after becoming a prisoner and later servant at Winterfell. In the television series, she serves as a major character during the early seasons of the show, with a similar background to her novel counterpart. In the novels, Osha was first introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996) as a wildling woman from Beyond the Wall who worships the Old Gods of the Forest. Attempting to flee from the Others (known as the White Walkers in the television series), she ventures south of the Wall to escape the potential war that is about to come. However, Osha is initially sparred by the Starks of Winterfell, and temporarily imprisoned by them due to her wild nature. She later gains the trust of the people of Winterfell, and eventually befriends Bran and Rickon Stark, and acts as their guardian. Osha later returns in A Clash of Kings (1998) and helps the Stark boys flee from Theon Greyjoy and survive the Sack of Winterfell. She then makes the decision to escort Rickon to safety while Bran heads north, and puts Maester Luwin out of his misery. Although her whereabouts remain unknown for some time, she is mentioned several times in A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Feast for Crows (2005). In A Dance with Dragons (2011), it is revealed that Osha, Rickon, and Shaggydog are currently seeking refuge at Skagos. The character served a minor role in the books, but her role became much more prominent in the television series. Osha held a strong reputation during her initial appearances in the first three seasons of the HBO adaptation, before being written out of the next two. The character returned in the season 6 episode "Oathbreaker" and was subsequently killed off in the next episode by Ramsay Bolton. Osha's death was the subject to mixed and negative criticism mainly due to her promising buildup in season 3, and how quickly the scene occurred. However, the character in the television series received a positive response from critics, who cited Osha as one of the show's more intriguing characters, praising her story arc, likable personality, and development. Tena's performance as Osha also received praise from Martin himself, who preferred the character in the show over his original interpretation.
Osha (A Song of Ice and Fire) : Osha appeared in the comic book adaptations of A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings. The character also appeared and is mentioned in the "Wargs and the Sight" featurette in the third season of Histories & Lore, an animated short series based on Game of Thrones lore. For merchandise, she appears on trading cards released by Rittenhouse Archives based on the TV series, and the A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings board and card games based on the books.
Osha (A Song of Ice and Fire) : Osha, in the books, received an average reception from critics. She is one of the characters intended to introduce new plot points within her respective storyline to help the story forward, particularly the Others. Osha's personality, however, has been viewed as being one-noted. Osha has received a generally positive reception in the television adaptation, and has received praise for her character arc, development, and strong personality. Due to her positive reputation, she is often regarded as one of Game of Thrones' most underrated and underused characters. The character was ranked 63rd on IGN's list of "Top 100 Game of Thrones Characters", and ranked the 3rd best female character by Collider. Osha was also ranked the 27th best character by ScreenCrush, and the 38th best major character by fans, according to Ranker. Joe Grantham for Game Rant remarked Osha's characterization to be one of the best changes from the books to the TV series, writing: "As an actor or actress, there is likely no praise higher than that of the author of the source material that is being adapted [...] Of course, the showrunners also had a role in Osha's character being more fleshed out as she was given more screen time and involved in plots that book Osha took no part in. Even so, Tena deserves a lot of credit here." In June 2024, Osha was ranked the second best short-lived character in Game of Thrones by Comic Book Resources, cited for her "brave, smart, and sadistic" personality. George R. R. Martin revealed that Osha was one of his favorite characters in the television series and one of the few characters where he preferred the TV counterpart—which he called "younger, more attractive and more dynamic"—over their book counterpart. He explained that this preference was mostly due to Natalia Tena's performance, which he continuously praised during the first three seasons of the show. As a result, Martin stated that he wants to reconsider the character's direction in the books and give her more of a dynamic storyline, noting that "the only actress who's really made me rethink a character is Natalia Tena as Osha". Although the episode "Book of the Stranger" was met with widespread critical acclaim, Osha's death in the episode was met with mostly negative criticism. Her death has been regarded as unnecessary and pointless to the plot by numerous critics, who complained about the character's possible potential, later claiming her death did not serve either a purpose or plot point in the show. "Osha really deserved a larger role in season six and while she would inevitably have died eventually, this really wasn't the right send-off for her," wrote Robin Baxter for WhatCulture. Critics also complained the only reason for Osha's shocking return was to have her killed off instead of being entirely written out of the show. Her death has also been remarked as both pointless and random by Screen Rant. Mike Rougeau for IGN believed Osha's death at the hands of Ramsay Bolton was unjust, and that the character deserved better since being absent for the past two seasons.
Osha (A Song of Ice and Fire) : Osha's profile (IGN) Osha (A Wiki of Ice and Fire) Osha (HBO)
Ellaria Sand : Ellaria Sand is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where she is portrayed by Indira Varma. Ellaria first appears in the third novel A Storm of Swords (2000). She is only mentioned in A Feast for Crows (2005), but returns in A Dance with Dragons (2011). She is the paramour to Oberyn Martell and mother to several of his bastard daughters, the Sand Snakes. After the death of her lover in a duel at the hands of Ser Gregor Clegane, she is sent into deep mourning, though she pushes for Oberyn's brother Doran Martell to sue for peace, seeking an end to the cycle of revenge. In the television adaptation, her storyline is slightly combined with that of Oberyn's niece, Arianne Martell, seeking for Dorne to go to war against the Lannisters' for their crimes against House Martell. However, in stark contrast to Arianne, Ellaria is portrayed as a ruthless and vengeful killer who seeks to murder the innocent Myrcella Baratheon, instead of crowning her to oppose Cersei and Tommen, and then slays Oberyn's remaining family so that she can seize power in Dorne. This change was met with a negative critical reception.
Ellaria Sand : Ellaria Sand is a bastard of Harmen Uller, head of House Uller and Lord of Hellholt in Dorne. Dorne's views and customs towards children born out of wedlock differ from those of the rest of Westeros, where bastards are often discriminated against. She is the paramour of Oberyn Martell, as even in Dorne a Prince cannot marry a bastard. She is the mother of the youngest four Sand Snakes (Oberyn's bastard daughters). Like Oberyn, she is bisexual. In the novels, Ellaria Sand is mostly a background character. She is not a point-of-view character; rather, her actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as Tyrion Lannister, Arianne Martell, and Areo Hotah.
Ellaria Sand : Ellaria Sand is played by the British actress Indira Varma in the television adaption of the series of books. She won the Empire Hero Award along with the rest of the cast in 2015. She was also nominated, along with the rest of the cast for Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2016.
Ellaria Sand : == References ==
Davos Seaworth : Davos Seaworth, also known as the Onion Knight or Davos Shorthand, is a fictional character from the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American writer George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. He is a prominent point of view character in the novels. Davos first appears in 1998's A Clash of Kings and later in A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Dance with Dragons (2011), serving as Stannis Baratheon's most trusted counselor. Davos comes from humble means and was a successful smuggler, who slipped through Targaryen loyalists' blockade to bring a shipful of much-needed supplies to Stannis and his starving forces defending the castle Storm's End during Robert's Rebellion. As appreciation for saving his men, Stannis raised him up as a knight and a vassal lord, but personally cut off the fingertips of Davos' left hand to punish for the criminal career of smuggling. Davos considers the treatments fair and is stubbornly loyal to Stannis but fears the growing influence of the Red Priestess, Melisandre. He forms a close fatherly relationship with Stannis' disfigured daughter Shireen. Davos is portrayed by Irish actor Liam Cunningham in the HBO television adaptation.
Davos Seaworth : In the HBO series, Davos has the fingers taken from his right hand (as actor Liam Cunningham is left-handed). He references having multiple sons, but only one is seen or included in the story (Matthos).
Jon Snow (character) : Jon Snow is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones, in which he is portrayed by Kit Harington. In the novels, he is a prominent point of view character. He is one of the most popular characters in the series, and The New York Times cites him as one of the author's finest creations. Jon is a main character in the TV series, and his storyline in the season 5 finale generated a strong reaction among viewers. Speculation about the character's parentage has also been a popular topic of discussion among fans of both the books and the TV series. Jon is introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones as the illegitimate son of Ned Stark, Lord of Winterfell in the North of Westeros. Knowing his prospects are limited by his status as a bastard, Jon joins the Night's Watch, who guard the far northern borders from the wildlings living beyond The Wall. In A Clash of Kings (1998), Jon joins a scouting party investigating the growing threat from the otherworldly "Others" beyond the Wall, and infiltrates the wildlings. Jon learns of their plans to invade Westeros in A Storm of Swords (2000), and falls in love with the wildling woman Ygritte. Jon betrays the wildlings and Ygritte, returns to defend the Night's Watch against the wildlings' invasion, and is elected Lord Commander of the Watch. He appears briefly in A Feast for Crows (2005) and returns as a prominent character in A Dance with Dragons (2011), in which he works to negotiate an alliance between the Night's Watch and the wildlings against the Others; his policies are met with hostility by some among the Watch, and he is left for dead in a mutiny at the novel's end following a desired attempt to break his vows to fight House Bolton. In the Game of Thrones television series, Jon's storyline initially follows the character's plot arc from the novel series. Seasons six through eight continue on from the events of Martin's latest published installment, detailing Jon's resurrection, and revealing him to have been born Aegon Targaryen, the legitimate son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark, therefore possessing a stronger claim to the Iron Throne than Daenerys Targaryen. For the role, Harington was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama in 2019, two Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series and Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series in 2016 and 2019, and two Critics' Choice Television Awards.
Arya Stark : Arya Stark is a fictional character in American author George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire epic fantasy novel series and its HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones, where she was portrayed by English actress Maisie Williams. She is a prominent point-of-view character in the novels with the third most viewpoint chapters (behind Tyrion Lannister and Jon Snow) and is the only character to have a viewpoint chapter in every published book of the series, with her chapters having various alternative titles such as "Cat of the Canal", "The Blind Girl", "The Ugly Little Girl" and "Mercy" from the fourth book onwards. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Arya is the third child and youngest daughter of Lord Eddard Stark and his wife Lady Catelyn Stark. She is tomboyish, headstrong, feisty, independent, disdains traditional female pursuits, and is often mistaken for a boy. She wields a castle-forged steel smallsword named "Needle" forged by Mikken, the blacksmith's son of Winterfell, as a parting gift from her half-brother Jon Snow, and is trained in the Braavosi style of sword fighting by Syrio Forel. Arya is among the most popular characters in the ASOIAF book series, and Maisie Williams' performance in the HBO adaptation has received critical acclaim. In 2016 and 2019, Williams was twice nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. She and the rest of the cast were nominated for Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Arya Stark : Arya was born in 289 AC ("After (Aegon's) Conquest") as the third child and younger daughter of Lord Eddard and Lady Catelyn Stark of Winterfell, the ruling liege of the North, and is nine years old at the beginning of the book series and 11 in season 1 of the show. She has five siblings: an older brother Robb, an older sister Sansa, two younger brothers Bran and Rickon, and an older illegitimate half-brother, Jon Snow. Through her mother, she is also first cousin to Robert Arryn, the lord paramount of The Vale; and the niece of Edmure Tully, the lord paramount of the Riverlands. Arya is left-handed and talented in sums and housekeeping. In contrast to her older sister Sansa, who is more praised for favoring activities traditionally befitting a noblewoman, Arya shows no interest in the ladylike dancing, singing and sewing, and revels in outdoor activities and exploring, and is an excellent horserider. She is described as "wolf-blooded", blunt, impulsive and "always difficult to tame" by her mother Catelyn, proven to be a constant source of headache for her household tutor Septa Mordane, and given the nickname "Arya Underfoot" by the guards of Winterfell. Socially an outcast, she is particularly close to her bastard half-brother Jon Snow, who encourages her and gives her a smallsword as a parting gift. The sword, which Arya names "Needle" after her dreaded embroidery lessons, is well suited to her slender build and favoring the Braavosi "Water Dance" (fencing) style of swordplay which emphasizes speed and agility with quick thrusting attacks. Throughout her travels, Arya displays great resourcefulness and cunning and also becomes increasingly ruthless. Arya is the only one out of her full-siblings to inherit the Stark features of lean athletic physique, brown hair, grey eyes and long face (for which she was teased as "Horseface" by Sansa's companions), and is said to resemble her late aunt Lyanna in both looks and temperament. At the start of the series, she is prepubescent and generally regarded as messy and plain-looking, and often mistaken for a boy; but there are multiple instances in the books comparing her (favorably) to the famously beautiful Lyanna, and frequently catching the eyes of men (to the point of harassment) when her body starts to develop later in the series. She is also a powerful skinchanger, developing purely on her own instinct the ability to telepathically control her direwolf Nymeria when sleeping (even from a different continent), as well as a psychic bond with a street tomcat in Braavos.
Arya Stark : Arya is among the most popular characters in either version of the series. Williams' performance in Game of Thrones has received critical acclaim, particularly in the second season for her work opposite veteran actor Charles Dance (who played Tywin Lannister) when Arya served as Tywin's cupbearer. Williams has received several award nominations for her portrayal of Arya. For her performance in the series she received two Portal Awards for Best Supporting Actress and Best Young Actor in 2012, an EWwy Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2014, and a Saturn Award for Best Performance by a Young Actor in a Television Series in 2015. Williams was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2016 and 2019. Other nominations include the Portal Award for Best Young Actor in 2011, the SFX Awards for Best Actress in 2012 and 2015, the Gold Derby TV Awards for Breakthrough Performer of the Year in 2012, the Young Artist Award for Best Performance in a TV Series by a Supporting Young Actress in 2013, the EWwy Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2015, and the Saturn Award for Best Performance by a Young Actor in a Television Series in 2016.
Arya Stark : The personal forename Arya is an existing real world name for both sexes of Sanskrit and Persian origins long used in South Asia. Following the start of the TV series, in 2012, the name Arya became the fastest-rising baby girl's name in the U.S., jumping in popularity from 711th to the 413th position, largely due to the popularity of Williams' character "Arya Stark". The name maintained its popularity in 2019. It was ranked 92 in the U.S. and its variation Aria was listed at 20. The name also entered the top 200 most commonly used names for baby girls born in England and Wales in 2017. The 2017 international hit "Look What You Made Me Do" by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift was partially inspired by Williams's Arya, with the line "I've got a list of names and yours is in red, underlined" inspired by her kill list, and Canadian rapper Drake thanked Arya Stark for killing the Night King during his acceptance speech at the 2019 Billboard Music Awards. Williams was also one of ten actors from Game of Thrones featured in character in a collection of Royal Mail first class postage stamps. The set which celebrates British contributions towards the show was released to the UK Post Office in January 2018. Arya Stark appears as a playable character in the 2024 platform fighting game MultiVersus, with Maisie Williams vocally reprising her role.
Arya Stark : This article incorporates text available under the CC BY-SA 3.0 license.
Bran Stark : Brandon Stark, also known as Bran, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where he is portrayed by English actor Isaac Hempstead Wright. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Bran subsequently appears in A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Storm of Swords (2000). He is one of a few prominent characters that are not included in the fourth novel A Feast for Crows (2005), but returned in the fifth novel A Dance with Dragons (2011). Bran is the second son and fourth child of Lord Eddard and Lady Catelyn Stark of Winterfell, the ancient capital of the North of the kingdom of Westeros. Bran dreams of becoming a knight since childhood, but is rendered paraplegic by Jaime Lannister in the first novel after stumbling upon the latter's affair with twin sister Cersei Lannister. Awaking from a months-long coma, he is subsequently plagued by dreams of a mysterious figure beckoning him to travel north beyond the Wall. Bran's journey alongside a variety of companions lead him deeper into the lore and magic of the North, where he begins to discover various mysterious powers and abilities. Martin told Rolling Stone in 2014 that Bran's momentous chapter with Jaime and Cersei is what "hooked" many readers early in the first novel. Bran's characterization in later seasons of the show, including his relationship to the White Walkers and the Night King, has generated many theories in the fandom, as well as significant critical interest.
Bran Stark : The youngest point of view character in the novels, Bran is in the very first chapter and was set up by Martin as a young hero of the series. Mikal Gilmore of Rolling Stone noted in 2014 that the moment in A Game of Thrones in which Jaime Lannister pushes Bran to his likely death "grabs you by the throat". Martin commented in the interview: I've had a million people tell me that was the moment that hooked them, where they said, "Well, this is just not the same story I read a million times before." Bran is the first viewpoint character. In the back of their heads, people are thinking Bran is the hero of the story. He's young King Arthur. We're going to follow this young boy—and then, boom: You don't expect something like that to happen to him. So that was successful [laughs]. In 2000, Martin called Bran the hardest character to write: Number one, he is the youngest of the major viewpoint characters, and kids are difficult to write about. I think the younger they are, the more difficult. Also, he is the character most deeply involved in magic, and the handling of magic and sorcery and the whole supernatural aspect of the books is something I'm trying to be very careful with. So I have to watch that fairly sharply. All of which makes Bran's chapters tricky to write. Booklist cited Bran as a notable character in 1999, and the Publishers Weekly review of A Game of Thrones noted, "It is fascinating to watch Martin's characters mature and grow, particularly Stark's children, who stand at the center of the book." Noting Bran's absence in 2005's A Feast for Crows, James Poniewozik of Time wrote in his review of A Dance with Dragons (2011): Some favorite characters were MIA for eleven long years. ADWD brings them back—bastard warrior Jon Snow, exiled dragon queen Daenerys Targaryen, fugitive dwarf Tyrion Lannister and crippled, mystical Bran Stark, among others—and almost from the get-go that gives it a narrative edge over its companion book. Each, in his or her own way, is dealing with a question of power.
Bran Stark : Bran Stark is played by Isaac Hempstead Wright in the television adaption of the series of books. Like the other children, Bran is aged up for television. He begins the series a 10-year-old child (3 years older than his book counterpart), and is 17 by the end of the series.
Bran Stark : Night King == References ==
Catelyn Stark : Catelyn Stark (née Tully), later known as Lady Stoneheart, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. She is a prominent point of view character in the first three novels. She also appears in the fourth novel, A Feast for Crows (2005), and will return in a prominent role for the forthcoming sixth novel, The Winds of Winter. Catelyn is portrayed by Northern Irish actress Michelle Fairley on the HBO series Game of Thrones. Fairley's portrayal has garnered critical acclaim, with many praising her performance during the episode "The Rains of Castamere". Due to this popularity, many fans were disappointed she did not appear again in the series despite the character's resurrection in the novels. Author George R. R. Martin confirmed he argued against the decision, which he called "the first major diversion of the show from the books", and the character being cut was ultimately made by the television showrunners David Benioff and D. B. Weiss.
Ned Stark : Eddard "Ned" Stark, known as The Quiet Wolf, is a fictional character in the 1996 fantasy novel A Game of Thrones by George R. R. Martin and Game of Thrones, HBO's adaptation of Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series. In the storyline, Ned is the lord of Winterfell, an ancient fortress in the North of the fictional continent of Westeros. Though the character is established as the main character in the novel and the first season of the TV adaptation, a plot twist involving Ned near the end of the novel and the end of the first season shocked both readers of the book and viewers of the TV series. Ned is portrayed by veteran English actor Sean Bean in the first season of Game of Thrones, as a child by Sebastian Croft in the sixth season, and as a young adult by Robert Aramayo in the sixth and seventh seasons. Bean was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Actor on Television and a Scream Award for Best Fantasy Actor for the role. He and the rest of the cast were nominated for Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2011.
Ned Stark : In January 2007 HBO secured the rights to adapt Martin's series for television. When the pilot went into production in 2009, one of the first casting announcements was Sean Bean as the "lead" Eddard Stark. As the show premiered in 2011, the Los Angeles Times called Bean's Ned "the strong and brooding headliner of the series". As in the source novel, Ned is beheaded in the ninth episode of season 1, "Baelor". Though praising the character's demise for its role in propelling the story, James Hibberd of Entertainment Weekly later noted that: This is probably the first time a U.S. drama series has ever killed off its main character in the first season as part of its master creative plan … it's just … not done. You don't cast a star, put him on bus stops and magazine ads marketing the show, get viewers all invested in his story, and then dump him nine episodes later just because it arguably makes the story a bit more interesting. Hibberd echoed the show's producers' statement that "the move lays down a dramatic precedent for the show: Nobody is safe". He called it a "risky" move that would probably lose the show viewers who had tuned in for Bean, but would hopefully attract others impressed by the boldness of it. Executive producer and writer D. B. Weiss told Entertainment Weekly in 2011 that when he and Benioff pitched the series to HBO, the fact that "main character" Ned was slated to die "was a selling point for them". Noting that the network has killed off characters in other successful series, he said that this sense of jeopardy "completely ups the ante for any moment when a character is in a dire situation if you know another character didn't survive a similar situation". HBO programming president Sue Naegle concurred, saying that Ned's death made the show creatively more attractive, adding that "The book series was filled with unexpected twists and turns. I loved this idea we'd bring together the group of characters, then once you started to believe all the tropes of heroes, you pull the rug out from under them. It's the opposite of feeling manipulated". Noting that the story and world of the series is bigger than any one character, Naegle said, "Sean brings a giant following, but Thrones is not just about the promise you're going to see one of your favorite actors week in and week out. The star is the story". Bean noted that Ned's death "was as much a surprise to me as anyone" and called it "a very courageous move for a television company". The image of Bean as Ned Stark sitting in the Iron Throne is featured on the covers of the 2011 Season 1 DVD and Blu-ray Disc sets, released in March 2012. The character makes a return in the sixth season, under a recurring capacity, via flashback visions of his youth and childhood seen by Bran and the Three-Eyed Raven using Greensight.
Rickon Stark : Rickon Stark is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones where he is portrayed by Irish actor Art Parkinson. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Rickon subsequently appears in Martin's A Clash of Kings (1998).
Rickon Stark : Rickon is the fifth and youngest child of Eddard "Ned" Stark and his wife Catelyn, and has five siblings — Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran, and his illegitimate half-brother Jon Snow. Like his brothers and sisters, Rickon is constantly accompanied by his direwolf, Shaggydog, with whom he shares a strong connection. Martin describes Rickon as favoring his mother in appearance. He is naturally aggressive, bold, tough, strong-willed, and violent: traits reflected in his direwolf companion 'Shaggydog'.
Rickon Stark : Martin, George R. R. (1996). Game of Thrones (UK ed.). Voyager Books. ISBN 0-00-224584-1. Martin, George R. R. (1998). A Clash of Kings (UK ed.). Voyager Books. ISBN 0-00-224585-X.
Robb Stark : Robb Stark known as The Young Wolf is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones, where he is portrayed by Richard Madden. Introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996), Robb is the eldest son and heir of Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell and Lady Catelyn Stark. He subsequently appeared in Martin's A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Storm of Swords (2000). After his father is executed on the order of King Joffrey Baratheon, Robb is crowned King in the North by his bannermen and wages a war against the Iron Throne. Robb's subsequent betrayal and murder at an event known as the Red Wedding shocked both book readers and television audiences alike.
Robb Stark : In his article "The War in Westeros and Just War Theory", Richard H. Corrigan uses Robb to illustrate the concepts of just cause and right intention in the decision to go to war: "Robb is not only fighting this war to ensure that his fellow Northerners have a just king [Robb's cause]. He is also doing it to avenge his father, Ned, and to recover his sisters Arya and Sansa [Robb's intention]." Corrigan speculates that Robb may be suffering from cognitive dissonance and says that, ethically, once Robb has achieved his cause, he is obligated to cease fighting even if he has not yet avenged his family. Robb's decision to renege on his promise to marry one of Walder Frey's daughters features heavily in the fifth chapter of Tim Phillips and Rebecca Clare's Game of Thrones and Business, "Keep Your Word: Robb Stark discovers too late the dangers of broken promises in business deals."
Robb Stark : Rickard Stark == References ==
Sansa Stark : Sansa Stark, later Alayne Stone, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin. Introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996), Sansa is the eldest daughter and second child of Lord Eddard Stark and his wife, Lady Catelyn Stark. She subsequently appeared in the following three novels: A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), and A Feast for Crows (2005). While absent from the fifth novel, A Dance with Dragons, Sansa will return in the forthcoming book, The Winds of Winter. In the television adaptation of Game of Thrones, she is portrayed by English actress Sophie Turner. Sansa's character development has received critical praise. Turner and the rest of the cast were nominated for Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2012, 2014, 2015, and 2016. Turner also received an Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2019.
Sansa Stark : Sansa Stark is the second child and the elder of the two daughters born to Lord Eddard Stark and Lady Catelyn Stark, the ruling liege of the North. She was born and raised in Winterfell with an older brother, Robb, a younger sister, Arya, two younger brothers, Bran and Rickon, and an older bastard, half-brother Jon Snow. Through her mother, Sansa is also first cousin to Robert Arryn, the lord paramount of The Vale, and the niece of Edmure Tully, the lord paramount of the Riverlands. She was once betrothed to Crown Prince Joffrey Baratheon and is still legally married (though never consummated) to Tyrion Lannister by the end of A Dance with Dragons. Raised as a noblewoman, Sansa embodies the traditional femininity stereotype expected by the Westerosi society and is widely praised as a courteous and lovable young maiden. Sansa has been described as tall, slim, womanly, and classically beautiful, destined to be a lady or a queen. Inheriting from her mother, Sansa has the Tully features, blue eyes, high cheekbones, and thick auburn hair, but later has her hair dyed dark brown while hiding in the Vale under the guise of "Alayne Stone", the alleged bastard daughter of Petyr Baelish. Sansa's interests are music, poetry, and singing, and she excels in embroidery. She fantasizes about becoming like the damsels of romantic tales who will find a prince, knight, or gentleman to fall in love with. She once owned a direwolf cub named Lady, which was killed in place of her sister Arya's direwolf Nymeria after the latter fled after attacking and wounding Crown Prince Joffrey. Sansa is 11 years old at the beginning of A Game of Thrones and nearly 14 at the end of A Feast for Crows. The most naive of the Stark children at the start of the series, Sansa chooses the treacherous Queen Cersei over her father and finds herself abused by her then-fiancé Joffrey, and used as a pawn in the machinations of House Lannister. However, as the story progresses, she matures and becomes more of a strategic player in the political game.
Sansa Stark : As her storyline has progressed, Sansa has received critical scrutiny and praise for the development of her character and her emergence from a naive girl to a strong young woman. Rolling Stone ranked Sansa as No. 4 on a list of the "Top 40 Game of Thrones Characters", saying that Sansa is "often overlooked in favor of her killer kid sister", but that her "quiet, innate political shrewedness and emotional strength have enabled her to survive", and calling her "the show's best-kept secret". In The Wrap's ranking of the 48 best Game of Thrones main characters in the first five seasons, Sansa was ranked at No. 4, ahead of the more popular Daenerys Targaryen, Jon Snow, and Tyrion Lannister, stating that "Sansa has been kind of great in Season 6, turning into the sort of badass we always hoped but never thought she actually could become". Writing for Mic, Julianne Ross said that Sansa is "often cited as one of the most reviled characters on Game of Thrones", and "not coincidentally, she is also one of the most classically feminine characters on the show." Ross criticized the heavy hatred for Sansa, particularly in contrast to her sister Arya, opining that this is because "she doesn't fit the narrow 'strong female character' mold we're used to rooting for." In an MTV article, Crystal Bell regarded Sansa as the most relatable character in the series. "She's often despised for having no agency", Bell wrote, but she is hated for her passivity as a woman as it "denotes weakness" and "she is the epitome of femininity" in the series. Bell felt that Sansa's greatest strength is her "unwavering resilience". Sansa received acclaim in Season 6 of the show, during which she began her quest to retake her family home and exact revenge on those who wronged her. Megan Garber of The Atlantic praised the show's decision to have Sansa be the one orchestrating Ramsay's death in "Battle of the Bastards", saying that "in the end, it was Sansa making the decisions about who would be the victim." Bennett Madison of Vanity Fair wrote: "As far back as King's Landing, Sansa's been quietly protecting herself ... learning how to game the system, and slithering through situations that would have gotten the best of the show's more flashy or impulsive characters." In "Battle of the Bastards", she was "defiantly, gloriously correct in her convictions" and "saved the day with her foresight and savvy". In an interview with The New York Times, actress Sophie Turner said that "[Sansa is] no longer a pawn in anyone's game; she's no longer a prisoner...she's the one taking charge and doing her own thing, which is very exciting". Turner later told Time magazine about how gratifying it was to watch Sansa's development during Season 6 and defended the show on the criticism of its cruel treatment of women: "In my opinion, Game of Thrones is not sexist, and it's accurate to medieval time. The show puts social boundaries on the women, and they break out of these boundaries."
Daenerys Targaryen : Daenerys Targaryen ( də-NAIR-iss tar-GAIR-ee-ən) is a fictional character in the series of epic fantasy novels A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. She is a prominent point-of-view character, and is one of the series' most popular characters. The New York Times cites her as one of the author's finest creations. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Daenerys is one of the last surviving members (along with her older brother, Viserys III, the "Beggar King") of House Targaryen, which, until 14 years before the events of the first novel, had ruled Westeros from the Iron Throne for nearly 300 years before being ousted. She subsequently appeared in A Clash of Kings (1998) and A Storm of Swords (2000). Daenerys was one of a few prominent characters not included in 2005's A Feast for Crows but returned in the next novel, A Dance with Dragons (2011). In the story, Daenerys is in her early teens, living in exile in Essos, where she has developed a Tyroshi accent. She remains dependent on her abusive older brother, Viserys, and is forced to marry Dothraki horselord Khal Drogo in exchange for Viserys' army to reclaim the Iron Throne in Westeros. Daenerys adapts to life with the Dothraki, and her character emerges as strong, confident, and courageous. She becomes the heir of the Targaryen dynasty after her brother's murder and plans to reclaim the Iron Throne herself, seeing it as her birthright. A pregnant Daenerys loses her husband and child, but blood magic allows Daenerys to hatch three dragon eggs. The dragons provide her with a tactical advantage and prestige. Later, Daenerys agrees to go to Astapor—instead of returning to Pentos—for an army as safe measures against the elusive Illyrio Mopatis. After acquiring all of the Unsullied, she frees them, and most agree to join her revolution. She executes the Good Masters and sets up a council for the city. Later, she conquers Yunkai and Meereen, the latter Daenerys settles in to learn how to rule. Despite her strong moral compass, she can deal ruthlessly with her enemies and those she believes to conspire against her. She is also disturbed by the prophetic warnings of Quaithe, a shadowbinder from Asshai. While in Meereen, she establishes herself as a powerful, relentless, but self-critical ruler. Eventually, she becomes a dragonrider to Drogon, whom she tames with a whip after he disturbs the fighting pits arena at Daznak's Pit. In the television adaptation of Game of Thrones, she is portrayed by British actress Emilia Clarke. While having many similarities, the television depiction of Daenerys is older (late teens) and has several mystical qualities, such as an unexplained fireproof ability. She is also not forewarned or haunted by prophecy like her book counterpart. Clarke's portrayal of Daenerys has garnered Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2013, 2015, and 2016 and Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series in 2019. She has also earned many other nominations and accolades for her portrayal. Her character arc from heroic to villainous at the end of the HBO series has been a source of controversy with critics and fans.
Daenerys Targaryen : Daenerys Targaryen is the daughter of King Aerys II Targaryen (also referred to as "The Mad King") and his sister-wife Queen Rhaella, and is one of the last survivors of House Targaryen. She serves as the third-person point-of-view character of 31 chapters of A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. This makes her the series' fourth most prominent narrative voice after Tyrion Lannister, Jon Snow and Arya Stark.
Daenerys Targaryen : Daenerys Targaryen on IMDb Daenerys Targaryen on HBO
Rhaenyra Targaryen : Rhaenyra Targaryen is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, appearing in the 2013 novella The Princess and the Queen, the 2014 novella The Rogue Prince and the 2018 novel Fire & Blood. In the 2022 television adaptation House of the Dragon, the character is portrayed by Australian actress Milly Alcock as a teenager and by English actor Emma D'Arcy as an adult. Through a series of circumstances, Rhaenyra is unprecedentedly named heir to the Iron Throne by her father, King Viserys I. Her claim was challenged by her half-brother Aegon II Targaryen and ultimately usurped, leading to a war of succession for control of the Iron Throne known as the Dance of the Dragons.
Rhaenyra Targaryen : Milly Alcock and Emma D'Arcy have both received acclaim for their performances, receiving a nomination for Critics' Choice Television Award and a Golden Globe Award, respectively. Collider contributor Jessie Nguyen wrote that Rhaenyra's childbirth scene in episode six "serves as a fast demonstration of D'Arcy's talent. From birth until the walk, the entire sequence was a single take, however, D'Arcy never wavered or broke character while still convincingly portraying Rhaenyra's misery and proving to be a tough opponent in the game." Additionally, Marcus Jones of IndieWire praised D'Arcy's take on Rhaenyra Targaryen proclaiming: "Though House of the Dragon is an ensemble series, viewers can tell just by D'Arcy's presence that their Rhaenyra is the star of the show." In October 2022, Google created an Easter Egg animation of a Negroni Sbagliato after D'Arcy referred to it as their favourite drink in a viral interview with Olivia Cooke for HBO Max. D'Arcy performance in Season 2 received further praise, with episodes The Red Dragon and the Gold and The Red Sowing being singled out. James Hunt of ScreenRant and Kayleigh Dray of The A.V. Club labelled their performance as "brilliant." The TV adaptation turned Rhaenyra's passive role in the books to a more aggressive one in the show. == References ==
Samwell Tarly : Samwell Tarly, or simply Sam, is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where the character is portrayed by English actor John Bradley. Introduced in A Game of Thrones (1996), Samwell is the elder son of Lord Randyll Tarly of Horn Hill and his wife Lady Melessa Florent. A self-professed coward with a love for books and songs, Samwell was forced by his father to abandon his birthright and join the Night's Watch so that his younger brother could become heir to Horn Hill. While at the Wall, he meets Jon Snow and quickly becomes his closest friend and ally. Samwell subsequently appeared in the second book A Clash of Kings (1998) before becoming a point-of-view character in the third book A Storm of Swords (2000) and the fourth book A Feast for Crows (2005).
Samwell Tarly : Samwell Tarly is played by John Bradley in the television adaption of the book series. Samwell Tarly appeared for the first time in season 1 episode 4, as a new recruit of the Night's Watch and a self-described coward. It was Bradley's first professional appearance after graduating from The Manchester Metropolitan School of Theatre. The scene used in the auditions belonged to "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things," with Sam explaining to Jon how Sam's father forced him to "take the black" (meaning join the Night's Watch). According to author and executive producer George R. R. Martin, Bradley delivered "a heartbreaking performance." When asked which character he personally would be on the show, Martin said of Samwell Tarly, "I love Sam, too. He's a great character - Tyrion might be who I want to be, but Sam is probably closer to who I actually am. The fat kid who likes to read books and doesn't like to go up a lot of stairs." Remarking on the character's sex life with Gilly, Bradley said: I think Sam would just happily accept more of the same. He's not one of the people that tries to inject exotica into his sex life; Sam thinks about sex the way that most people think about space. It goes on. He has nothing to do with it. He's fascinated by it in a childlike way. == References ==
Margaery Tyrell : Margaery Tyrell is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of epic fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones, where she is portrayed by English actress Natalie Dormer. Margaery is first mentioned in A Game of Thrones (1996) and first appears in A Clash of Kings (1998). She subsequently appeared in A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Feast for Crows (2005). Margaery is a member of the House Tyrell, the second wealthiest and largest of the eight Great Houses in Westeros. She is the younger sister of Lord Willas Tyrell, the heir to Highgarden, Ser Garlan the Gallant, as well as Ser Loras Tyrell, the Knight of Flowers. She is close to her paternal grandmother Lady Olenna, the Queen of Thorns, originally of House Redwyne. Like her grandmother, Margaery is shrewd, ambitious and adaptable, and uses her beauty, generosity and family influence to secure power for herself. Having wed herself to three kings over the course of the narrative, she becomes an influential political figure in Westeros, which often brings her into conflict with her chief rival at court, Cersei Lannister.
Margaery Tyrell : Adam Whitehead of the wertzone feels Margaery's rivalry with Cersei Lannister is a major driving force in A Feast for Crows. Sean T. Collins writing for Rolling Stone feels that author Martin has been vague about Margaery's ambition and political cunning and describes her as a "mute mystery whose motives and level of involvement in the game of thrones are unknown [by A Clash of Kings]". Other writers feel Margaery's political ambition is more obvious. Madeline of Feministing considers Margaery "an ambitious politico as well as being a damn good actress – she plays the part of the tragic, virginal twice-widow so well that almost no one suspects that she is dead set on winning the throne. ... Margaery uses her womanhood to her advantage, knowing that producing an heir will shoot her to power." Similarly, Danica Liu writing for The Duke Chronicle describes Margaery as "subtle and graceful" and like most of the women in A Song of Ice and Fire, deals in the currencies of power. David Sims writing for The A.V. Club enjoyed the introduction of Margaery's character in the Game of Thrones episode "What Is Dead May Never Die", commenting; "the fun twist to this plot is that Margaery Tyrell is obviously not the blushing maiden she appears to be, but an operator just like everyone else", adding that her introduction is an example of the series "rarely trafficking in cliched characterization." Jenna Busch of Zap2it calls Margaery a "power player" who will "do anything to stay on the throne." In "Valar Dohaeris", Diana Huang of UC Riverside's Highlander News appreciated the development of Margaery's character and called her "self aware and quick-witted" and believes she has the power to wreak havoc in King's Landing. Commentators notice Margaery's desire and ability to gain the support of the public, and Margaery has been cited as a prominent example of the story's strong feminist themes. Natalie Dormer, the actress who plays Margaery, discussed Margaery's political savviness: Margaery brings this whole new element to the Game that you haven't seen before, which is basically PR. It's quite a modern ethos on PR and courting public affections, hopefully. We've all seen politicians kiss babies. It doesn't mean that she's insincere in her genuine hope to do charitable work and it's just an interesting new comment on how you handle the masses and how you win power that maybe we haven't seen in Westeros before. She also noted that Margaery comes from a matriarchal family and "that she's more cut from the cloth as a protegee of her grandmother, so she knows what it's like for a woman to be in charge." For her performance in the show, Natalie Dormer, along with the rest of the ensemble cast, was nominated for four Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2012, 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively, and the cast was awarded the Empire Hero Award in 2015 by the British film magazine Empire. For her performance in the third season of the show, Dormer won the Ewwy Award for Best Supporting Actress - Drama. == References ==
Olenna Tyrell : Olenna Tyrell (née Redwyne) is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of high fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation, Game of Thrones. Olenna is first mentioned in A Game of Thrones (1996) and appears in A Storm of Swords (2000) and A Feast for Crows (2005). She is the matriarch of the powerful House Tyrell, the largest and second wealthiest of the eight Great Houses of Westeros. Olenna is characterized by her cunning, ambition and sharp wit (the latter of which being the foundation for her title, the Queen of Thorns, with the Tyrell sigil of a rose). Although her family is allied with the Lannisters in King's Landing, she often finds her machinations at odds with theirs, especially those of Tywin Lannister. She, along with Petyr Baelish, is responsible for the death of King Joffrey Baratheon during his wedding to her granddaughter and protégé, Margaery. In the HBO television adaptation, Olenna was portrayed by veteran English actress Diana Rigg, who received significant critical praise for her portrayal. Rigg received Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series for her performances in 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2018.
Olenna Tyrell : Olenna Tyrell, also known as the Queen of Thorns, is the mother of Mace Tyrell, the lord of Highgarden and the lord paramount of the Reach. She is described as a wizened and cunning old woman with a wicked wit and a sharp tongue, and is known for openly stating her opinion. Olenna is not a point of view character in the novels, so her actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as Sansa Stark and Cersei Lannister. Olenna is mostly a background character in the novels.
Olenna Tyrell : In A Storm of Swords, she plots to have Sansa taken to Highgarden to marry her grandson Willas. This plan is foiled by the Lannisters, who force Sansa to marry Tyrion Lannister. According to Littlefinger later in A Storm of Swords, in order to shield Margaery from King Joffrey's cruelty, Olenna had actually been the one who murdered Joffrey at his wedding. Margaery would later go on to marry the younger brother, Tommen Baratheon.
Olenna Tyrell : Lady Olenna, better known as "The Queen of Thorns", is the sharp-witted grandmother of Loras and Margaery. In the adaptation, Olenna is the matriarch of, and the true power behind, House Tyrell. She is also aware of and is generally unconcerned with her grandson Loras's homosexuality. Olenna implies that both closet matriarchy and tolerance of "sword-swallowers" are considered relatively normal in the Reach. She is notably one of the few characters that Tywin Lannister treats as an equal. Olenna was played by the British actress Diana Rigg in the television adaption of the series of books. Commenting on the casting of Diana Rigg, David Benioff said “you don’t audition Dames, they audition you”. Rigg highly praised the show after being cast as Olenna, saying that she "couldn’t ask for better lines – I’m so lucky. I could be sitting at home crumbling but I'm not." Speaking on the character, Rigg said that Olenna "says all the things that other people dare not say". Remarking on the series and the character: I wasn't aware I was getting involved in something so huge. I really had no idea. She is also pretty evil; I'm good at evil. Remarking on the costumes of the series: Also the costume is terrific. I don’t have to spend hours in make-up and I’m in a wimple, it’s great. I adore it, I absolutely adore it. Executive producer D. B. Weiss said of Rigg's final scene as Olenna, "What I love about the way she plays the scene is that even though you leave the scene knowing she’s soon going to be dead shortly after you cut to black you still feel like she won. She’s probably the only character to win her own death scene."
Olenna Tyrell : == References ==
Varys : Lord Varys is a fictional character in the A Song of Ice and Fire series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin, and its television adaptation Game of Thrones. Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Varys is a former slave eunuch from the city of Lys and the master of whisperers in King's Landing. He subsequently appeared in Martin's books A Clash of Kings (1998), A Storm of Swords (2000), and A Dance with Dragons (2011). He proves to be a key ally to Ned Stark and Tyrion Lannister at court, but his true motives remain shrouded in mystery to those who employ his services. Varys is portrayed by Conleth Hill in the HBO television adaptation.
Varys : Varys is not a point of view character in the novels, so his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of other people, such as Ned Stark, Tyrion and Cersei Lannister.
Varys : Varys is played by the Northern Irish actor Conleth Hill in the television adaption of the series of books. Author George R. R. Martin wrote about the casting of Hill as Varys, "Hill, like Varys, is quite a chameleon, an actor who truly disappears inside the characters he portrays, more than capable of bringing the slimy, simpering eunuch to life."
Varys : Varys - A Wiki of Ice & Fire Eunuchs at Court - Fact Behind Fiction == References ==
White Walker : White Walkers are humanoid creatures from the HBO television series Game of Thrones, and the George R. R. Martin novel series A Song of Ice and Fire on which it is based. Primarily referred to as the Others in the novels, White Walkers are a supernatural threat to mankind who dwell north of The Wall in Westeros. The Verge named them among "the most visually iconic creatures on the show". White Walkers are also featured in the show's merchandising.
White Walker : Martin introduces the Others in the prologue of A Game of Thrones (1996), describing them as "Tall ... and gaunt and hard as old bones, with flesh pale as milk" with eyes "deeper and bluer than any human eyes, a blue that burned like ice". Accompanied by intense cold, they wear armor that "seemed to change color as it moved", and wield thin crystal swords capable of shattering steel. The Others move silently, and they speak their own language; Martin writes that their voices are "like the cracking of ice on a winter lake". In A Storm of Swords (2000), they are shown to be vulnerable to weapons made of dragonglass (obsidian), as Samwell Tarly kills one this way: The Other's armor was running down its legs in rivulets as pale blue blood hissed and steamed around the black dragonglass dagger in its throat ... where its fingers touched the obsidian they smoked ... the Other shrank and puddled, dissolving away. In twenty heartbeats its flesh was gone, swirling away in a fine white mist. Beneath were bones like milkglass, pale and shiny, and they were melting too. Finally only the dragonglass dagger remained, wreathed in steam ... Grenn bent to scoop it up and flung it down again at once. "Mother, that’s cold." In A Dance with Dragons (2011), Sam uncovers ancient record fragments which suggest that the Others are also vulnerable to something called "dragonsteel", which he and Jon Snow surmise is another term for Valyrian steel. Creatures killed by the Others soon reanimate as wights: undead with pallid skin, black hands, and glowing blue eyes similar to the Others'. Dragonglass has no effect on wights in the books (though it kills them in the TV series). Although wights can be physically injured, even dismembered parts will remain animated, but they can be destroyed by fire. The humans who live in the north beyond the Wall—called "wildlings" by the inhabitants of Westeros—burn their dead so they will not become wights. Wildlings call the Others "White Walkers", unlike others in Westeros.
White Walker : In 2012, Chris Lackner wrote in Dose, "Fans of the novels are eagerly awaiting Martin's final two installments of the seven-part series. In particular, they are eager to learn more about the White Walkers—or The Others—a mysterious, undead race seemingly bent on humanity's destruction."
White Walker : The White Walkers portrayed on HBO's Game of Thrones differ slightly in appearance from their literary counterparts, but Aaron Souppouris of The Verge named them among "the most visually iconic creatures on the show". In the TV series, the primary White Walker has been portrayed by Ross Mullan. The show calls them "White Walkers" to avoid confusing "the Others" and "others" in speech. Their apparent leader is the Night King, portrayed by Richard Brake and Vladimir Furdik, who first appeared in the episode "Oathkeeper", in which he places his hand on Craster's baby son, transforming him into a White Walker. In "Hardhome", the effectiveness of Valyrian steel against the White Walkers is proven as Jon shatters one to pieces with a single stroke of his ancient sword Longclaw. Unlike in the novels, the TV series has established that wights can be destroyed by dragonglass. In the season 6 episode "The Door" (May 2016), Bran Stark experiences a vision of the creation of the Night King by Leaf, one of the Children of the Forest, by stabbing a human prisoner in the chest with a dragonglass dagger. Leaf explains to an incredulous Bran that the Children were at war with the First Men at the time of the Night King's creation. In season 7, when Jon kills a White Walker, the wights under its control are also destroyed. The Night King kills Daenerys Targaryen's dragon Viserion in the seventh season episode "Beyond the Wall", and then reanimates him as a wight. In the season finale episode "The Dragon and the Wolf", the Night King uses the dragon to breach the Wall. In the eighth season premiere, "Winterfell", a group of survivors from the Wall's destruction discover that Last Hearth, the home of House Umber, has been attacked by the Army of the Dead in their conquest of the North, with all of its inhabitants killed. The Night King has also left a message in the form of the deceased Ned Umber impaled on a wall and surrounded by a spiral of severed limbs. In the second episode "A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms", the inhabitants of Winterfell make plans for defending the castle against the Army of the Dead. Bran states that the Night King is seeking an "endless night", as he plans to cleanse the world of all life and memory and intends to kill Bran as a major step towards this goal. The White Walkers are later seen viewing Winterfell from a distance as the living prepare to fight them. In the third episode "The Long Night", the Army of the Dead marches on Winterfell and nearly wipes out the combined armies of the living. The Night King eventually reaches the Godswood, kills Theon Greyjoy, and prepares to strike down Bran. However, the Night King is ambushed and killed by Arya Stark with the Valyrian steel dagger that Bran had previously given her ("The Spoils of War"), which causes both him and the other White Walkers to shatter and results in the complete obliteration of the Army of the Dead. In House of the Dragon, the TV adaptation of Fire & Blood, it is revealed in the first episode "The Heirs of the Dragon" (August 2022) that Aegon the Conqueror was inspired to unify Westeros by a dream in which he saw the end of the world of the living coming from the cold northernmost reaches of the continent. Daemon Targaryen has a vision of a White Walker in the episode "The Queen Who Ever Was" (August 2024).
White Walker : Night King Themes in A Song of Ice and Fire
White Walker : Landau, Neil (December 4, 2013). "Establish the Mythology". The TV Showrunner's Roadmap: 21 Navigational Tips for Screenwriters to Create and Sustain a Hit TV Series. CRC Press. p. 229. ISBN 978-1-134-62132-3.
A Clash of Kings : A Clash of Kings is the second of seven planned novels in A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin, an epic fantasy series. It was first published in the United Kingdom on November 16, 1998; the first United States edition followed on February 2, 1999. Like its predecessor, A Game of Thrones, it won the Locus Award (in 1999) for Best Novel and was nominated for the Nebula Award (also in 1999) for Best Novel. In May 2005, Meisha Merlin released a limited edition of the novel, fully illustrated by John Howe. The novel has been adapted for television as the second season of the HBO series Game of Thrones. A Clash of Kings is also the name of the first expansion to the Game of Thrones board game.
A Clash of Kings : A Clash of Kings depicts the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros in civil war, while the Night's Watch mounts a reconnaissance to investigate the mysterious people known as wildlings. Meanwhile, Daenerys Targaryen continues her plan to conquer the Seven Kingdoms.
A Clash of Kings : The tale is told through the eyes of 9 recurring POV characters plus one prologue POV character: Prologue: Maester Cressen, maester at Dragonstone. Tyrion Lannister, youngest son of Lord Tywin Lannister, a dwarf and a brother to Queen Cersei, and the acting Hand of the King to Joffrey Baratheon. Lady Catelyn Stark, of House Tully, widow of Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell. Ser Davos Seaworth, a smuggler turned knight in the service of King Stannis Baratheon, often called the Onion Knight. Sansa Stark, eldest daughter of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Stark, held captive by King Joffrey in King's Landing. Arya Stark, youngest daughter of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Stark, missing and presumed dead. Bran Stark, second son of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Stark, ruling in Winterfell in his elder brother’s absence. Jon Snow, bastard son of Eddard Stark, and a man of the Night's Watch. Theon Greyjoy, heir to the Seastone Chair and former ward of Lord Eddard Stark. Queen Daenerys Targaryen, the Unburnt and Mother of Dragons, of the Targaryen dynasty.
A Clash of Kings : Foreign language editions
A Clash of Kings : A Clash of Kings has been adapted for television by HBO as the second season of its successful adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire. Filming began July 2011, and the first episode of season 2 of Game of Thrones aired on April 1, 2012.
A Clash of Kings : As with its predecessor, A Clash of Kings was positively received by critics. Dorman Shindler of The Dallas Morning News described it as "one of the best [works] in this particular subgenre", praising "the richness of this invented world and its cultures ... [that] lends Mr. Martin's novels the feeling of medieval history rather than fiction." Writing in The San Diego Union-Tribune, Jim Hopper called A Clash of Kings "High Fantasy with a vengeance" and commented: "I'll admit to staying up too late one night last week to finish off this big book, and I hope it's not too terribly long until the next one comes out." Danielle Pilon wrote in the Winnipeg Free Press that the book "shows no signs of the usual 'middle book' aimlessness". Although she found the constantly switching viewpoints "momentarily confusing", she felt that it "draws the reader deep into the labyrinthine political and military intrigues and evokes sympathy for characters on all sides of the conflict." Bradley H. Sinor of the Tulsa World praised Martin for "keep[ing] readers balanced on a sword's edge" and managing to do "three important things" with A Clash of Kings: "It grips the reader whether or not they read the earlier book, tells a satisfying story and leaves the reader wanting the next book as soon as possible." The Oregonian's Steve Perry called the book "easily as good as the first novel" and commented that the Song of Ice and Fire books were "so complex, fascinating and well-rendered that readers will almost certainly be hooked into the whole series." However, he cautioned that "if it were a movie, it would be rated "R" for sex and violence, so don't pick the book up for your 10-year-old nephew who likes Conan."
A Clash of Kings : Locus Award – Best Novel (Fantasy) (Won) – (1999) Nebula Award – Best Novel (Nominated) – (1999) Ignotus Award – Best Novel (Foreign) (Won) – (2004)
A Clash of Kings : A Clash of Kings title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Clash of Kings at the Internet Book List
A Dance with Dragons : A Dance with Dragons is the fifth novel of seven planned in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. In some areas, the paperback edition was published in two parts: Dreams and Dust and After the Feast. It was the only novel in the series to be published during the eight-season run of the HBO adaptation of the series, Game of Thrones. It is 1,056 pages long and has a word count of almost 415,000. The US hardcover was officially published on July 12, 2011, and a few weeks later, it went to No. 1 on Publishers Weekly and USA Today bestsellers lists. The novel has been adapted for television as the fifth season of Game of Thrones, although elements of the book have also appeared in the series' third, fourth and sixth seasons.
A Dance with Dragons : The story is narrated from the point of view of 18 different characters, including two minor one-off point-of-view (POV) characters featured in the prologue and epilogue. All but two POV characters were identified before the book's release. In the North: Prologue: Varamyr Sixskins, a skinchanger and one of the surviving wildlings north of the Wall. Jon Snow, the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch and bastard son of Eddard Stark. Bran Stark, rightful heir to his brother, the late Robb Stark. Seeking an old power beyond the Wall, believed dead by his own family. Davos Seaworth, former smuggler and Hand of the King to Stannis Baratheon. Has recently learned to read, sent to negotiate with northern houses. Reek, the Prince of Winterfell, the Turncloak, a Ghost in Winterfell: Theon Greyjoy, presumed-dead son of recently deceased King Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands, a captive of Ramsay Bolton and now tortured, starved and barely sane. The Wayward Bride, the King's Prize, the Sacrifice: Asha Greyjoy, niece of King Euron Greyjoy of the Iron Islands, fled the Iron Islands after her uncle's coronation. Lady Melisandre, a shadow-binder from Asshai and a devoted priestess to the red god R'hllor, advisor to Stannis. In the eastern continent of Essos: Daenerys Targaryen, heir to the Targaryen dynasty which ruled Westeros for 300 years until their deposition 15 years before the first novel. Self-proclaimed Queen of Westeros, she now rules the city of Meereen. Tyrion Lannister, dwarf and uncle to the King Tommen of Westeros, a fugitive wanted for kinslaying and regicide. Recently fled the Seven Kingdoms. The Merchant's Man, the Windblown, the Spurned Suitor, the Dragontamer: Quentyn Martell, eldest son of Prince Doran Martell of Dorne, traveling into the East on a mission for his father. The Lost Lord, the Griffin Reborn: Jon Connington, one of the former Hands of the King to Aerys Targaryen and one of Prince Rhaegar's closest friends. Exiled, and falsely believed dead. His identity as a narrator was kept secret throughout the book's pre-release process. The Queensguard, the Discarded Knight, the Kingbreaker, the Queen's Hand: Ser Barristan Selmy, the former Lord Commander of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard, and the first of Daenerys's Queensguard. The Iron Suitor: Victarion Greyjoy, Captain of the Iron fleet, recently gone on a quest to find Daenerys and use her for the Ironborn's own ends. The Blind Girl, the Ugly Little Girl: Arya Stark, hiding in the Free City of Braavos, where she has taken on the identity of the "Cat of the Canals" and continues her training as an assassin by the House of Black and White (The Faceless Men). In the South: The Watcher: Areo Hotah, Captain of Doran Martell's guard. Ser Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard; currently occupying the lands around Riverrun. Cersei Lannister, the Queen Regent, currently imprisoned in a tower cell, awaiting trial. Epilogue: Ser Kevan Lannister, head of House Lannister in light of his brother's death, and current regent to King Tommen. His identity as a narrator was kept secret throughout the book's pre-release process. Chapters for several POVs, which may include Sansa Stark, Samwell Tarly, Aeron Damphair, Arianne Martell, and Brienne of Tarth were written for the book, but they will instead tentatively appear in the next book, The Winds of Winter.
A Dance with Dragons : Foreign-language editions Bulgarian: Бард: "Танц с Дракони" ("Dance with Dragons") Catalan: Alfaguara: "Dansa amb dracs" ("Dance with Dragons") Chinese (traditional): 與龍共舞 (Yǔ lóng gòng wǔ, "dance with dragons"); three volumes named 上 (shàng, "first"), 中 (zhōng, "middle") and 下 (xià, "last") Croatian: Two volumes, Algoritam: "Ples zmajeva" ("A Dance of Dragons") Czech: Talpress: "Tanec s draky" ("A Dance with Dragons") Danish: "En dans med drager" ("A Dance with Dragons") Dutch: Two volumes, Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Oude vetes, Nieuwe strijd", "Zwaarden tegen draken" ("Old Feuds, New Battle", "Swords Against Dragons") Estonian: Two volumes, hardcover : Varrak "Tants Lohedega" ("A Dance with Dragons") book 1 (09/23/2016) & book 2 (05/18/2017) Finnish: Two volumes: "Lohikäärmetanssi" ("Dragon Dance") 1 and 2 French: Three volumes, Pygmalion: "Le Bûcher d'un roi", "Les dragons de Meereen", "Une danse avec les dragons" ("The Stake/Pyre of a King", "The Dragons of Meereen", "A Dance with Dragons") German: FanPro (2012): "Drachenreigen" ("Dragons' Round"). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2012): "Der Sohn des Greifen", "Ein Tanz mit Drachen" ("The Son of the Griffin", "A Dance with Dragons") Greek: Two volumes, Anubis: "Το Κάλεσμα της Φλόγας" (To Kalesma tis Flogas), "Το Σπαθί στο Σκοτάδι" (To Spathi sto Skotadi) — "Call of the Flame", "The Sword in the Darkness" Hebrew: "ריקוד עם דרקונים חלק א – חלומות ואבק, ריקוד עם דרקונים חלק ב – לאחר המשתה" ("Dance with Dragons Part I – Dreams and Dust, Dancing with Dragons Part II – After the Feast") Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Sárkányok tánca" ("Dance of Dragons") Italian: Three volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (2011, 2012): "I guerrieri del ghiaccio", "I fuochi di Valyria", "La danza dei draghi" ("The Warriors of Ice", "The Fires of Valyria", "The Dance of Dragons") Japanese: Hardcover : Three volumes, Hayakawa (2013): "竜との舞踏" ("Dance with Dragons") I, II and III, paperback : Hayakawa (2016), I, II and III Latvian: "Deja ar Pūķiem" ("A Dance with Dragons") Lithuanian: Two volumes: "Šokis su Drakonais: Sapnai ir Dulkės", "Šokis su Drakonais: Po Puotos" ("Dance with Dragons: Dreams and the Dust", "Dance with Dragons: After the Feast") Norwegian: Two volumes, Vendetta: "Drømmer og støv", "Dragenes dans" ("Dreams and Dust", "Dance of the Dragons") Polish: "Taniec ze smokami" ("A Dance with Dragons") Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "A Dança dos Dragões" ("The Dance of Dragons") European Portuguese: Two volumes, Saída de Emergência: "A Dança dos Dragões", "Os Reinos do Caos" ("A Dance of Dragons", "The Kingdom of Chaos") Romanian: Nemira: "Dansul dragonilor" ("The Dance of the Dragons") Russian: AST: "Танец с драконами" (Tanets s drakonami, "Dance with Dragons") Serbian: Two volumes, Лагуна: "Плес са змајевима Део први: Снови и прах", "Плес са змајевима Део други: После гозбе" ("A Dance with Dragons Part I: Dreams and Dust", "A Dance with Dragons Part II: After the Feast") Slovakia: Two volumes, Tatran: "Tanec s Drakmi 1: Sny a prach", "Tanec s Drakmi 2: Po hostine" ("A Dance with Dragons Part I: Dreams and Dust", "A Dance with Dragons Part II: After the Feast") Slovenian: "Ples z zmaji" ("A Dance with Dragons") Spanish: Ediciones Gigamesh: "Danza de dragones" ("Dance of Dragons") Swedish: "Drakarnas dans" ("Dance of the Dragons") Turkish: "Ejderhaların Dansı" ("Dance of Dragons") Ukrainian: One volume, KM Publishing (2018): "Танок драконів" ("A Dance of Dragons") Vietnamese: Three volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5A: Đánh thức Rồng Thiêng", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5B: Trấn thủ thành Mereen", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 5C: Vũ điệu Rồng Thiêng". ("Game of Thrones 5A: Awake Dragon", "Game of Thrones 5B: Defense on Mereen", "Game of Thrones 5C: Dance of Dragons")
A Dance with Dragons : Official website of author George R. R. Martin A Dance with Dragons title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Dance with Dragons at the Internet Book List Shippey, Tom (July 11, 2011). "A Land of Wargs And Yunkishmen". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved July 23, 2014. Franich, Darren (July 12, 2011). "George R. R. Martin's A Dance With Dragons: The EW review". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved July 23, 2014.
A Feast for Crows : A Feast for Crows is the fourth of seven planned novels in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. The novel was first published in the United Kingdom on October 17, 2005, with a United States edition following on November 8, 2005. Because of its size, Martin and his publishers split the narrative of the still-unfinished manuscript for A Feast for Crows into two books. Rather than divide the text chronologically in half, Martin instead split the material by plot location, resulting in "two novels taking place simultaneously" with different casts of characters. A Feast for Crows was published months later, focusing mainly on southern Westeros. The concurrent novel A Dance with Dragons, which focuses on other locations such as the North, the Wall, and Essos, was advertised for the following year but was eventually released six years later in 2011. Martin noted that the A Song of Ice and Fire series would now likely total seven novels. A Feast for Crows was the first novel in the series to debut at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list, a feat among fantasy writers only previously achieved by Robert Jordan and Neil Gaiman. In 2006, the novel was nominated for the Hugo Award, the Locus Award, and the British Fantasy Award. It has since been adapted, along with A Dance With Dragons, for television as the fifth season of Game of Thrones, though elements of the novel appeared in the series' fourth and sixth seasons.
A Feast for Crows : The War of the Five Kings is slowly coming to its end. The secessionist kings Robb Stark and Balon Greyjoy are dead. One claimant to the throne, Stannis Baratheon, has gone to fight off invading wildling tribes at the northern Wall, where Robb's half-brother Jon Snow has become the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, the order responsible for guarding the Wall. The eight-year-old King Tommen Baratheon now rules in King's Landing under the regency of his mother, Cersei Lannister. The warrior woman Brienne of Tarth has been sent by Cersei's brother (and lover) Jaime Lannister on a mission to find Robb's sister Sansa Stark. Sansa is hiding in the Vale, protected by her mother's childhood friend Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish, who has murdered his wife (and her aunt) Lysa Arryn, and named himself Protector of the Vale and guardian of Lysa's son, the eight-year-old Lord Robert Arryn.
A Feast for Crows : The story is narrated from the point of view of 12 characters and a one-off prologue point of view. Unlike its predecessors, the fourth novel follows numerous minor characters as well. Prologue: Pate, a novice of the Citadel in Oldtown Cersei Lannister, The Queen Regent Ser Jaime Lannister, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard Brienne, Maid of Tarth, a young warrior woman searching for Sansa and Arya Stark Sansa Stark, pretending to be Petyr Baelish's daughter "Alayne Stone" (her later chapters are titled as such) Arya Stark, later referred to as "Cat of the Canals", beginning her training at The House of Black and White in the free city of Braavos Samwell Tarly, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch In the Iron Islands: The Prophet, The Drowned Man: Aeron "Damphair" Greyjoy, Self-proclaimed servant of the Drowned god, youngest of Late King Balon's three surviving brothers The Kraken's Daughter: Princess Asha Greyjoy, daughter of Late King Balon of the Iron Islands The Iron Captain, The Reaver: Prince Victarion Greyjoy, Captain of the Iron Fleet, one of Late King Balon's three surviving brothers In Dorne: The Captain of Guards: Areo Hotah, Captain of the Guards to Prince Doran Martell of Dorne The Soiled Knight: Ser Arys Oakheart of the Kingsguard The Queenmaker, The Princess in the Tower: Arianne Martell, daughter of Prince Doran and heir to Dorne
A Feast for Crows : Martin released the first four "Iron Islands" chapters of A Feast for Crows as a novella called Arms of the Kraken, published in the 305th edition of Dragon magazine, published in May 2003. Another chapbook featuring three Daenerys chapters was published for BookExpo 2005 although, following the geographical division of the book, these chapters were subsequently moved into the fifth volume in the series, A Dance with Dragons. Martin originally planned for the fourth book to be called A Dance with Dragons with the story picking up five years after the events of A Storm of Swords (primarily to advance the ages of the younger characters). However, during the writing process, it was discovered that this was leading to an overreliance on flashbacks to fill in the gap. After twelve months or so of working on the book, Martin decided to abandon much of what had previously been written and start again, this time picking up immediately after the end of A Storm of Swords. He announced this decision, along with the new title A Feast for Crows, at Worldcon in Philadelphia on September 1, 2001. He also announced that A Dance with Dragons would now be the fifth book in the sequence. In May 2005, Martin announced that his manuscript for A Feast for Crows had hit 1527 completed pages but still remained unfinished, with "another hundred or so pages of roughs and incomplete chapters, as well as other chapters, sketched out but entirely unwritten." As the size of the manuscript for A Storm of Swords (2000), his previous novel, had been a problem for publishers around the world at 1521 pages, Martin and his publishers had decided to split the narrative planned for A Feast for Crows into two books. Rather than divide the text in half chronologically, Martin opted to instead split the material by character and location: It was my feeling ... that we were better off telling all the story for half the characters, rather than half the story for all the characters. Cutting the novel in half would have produced two half-novels; our approach will produce two novels taking place simultaneously, but set hundreds or even thousands of miles apart, and involving different casts of characters (with some overlap). Martin noted that A Feast for Crows would focus on "Westeros, King's Landing, the riverlands, Dorne, and the Iron Islands," and that the next novel, A Dance with Dragons, would cover "events in the east and north." Martin also added that the A Song of Ice and Fire series would now likely total seven novels. A Feast for Crows was published months later on October 17, 2005, over five years after the previous volume in the series, A Storm of Swords. The parallel novel A Dance with Dragons was released on July 12, 2011.
A Feast for Crows : 2005, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-224743-7, Pub date October 17, 2005, hardback 2005, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-722463-X, Pub date ? ? 2005, hardback (presentation edition) 2005, US, Spectra Books ISBN 0-553-80150-3, Pub date November 8, 2005, hardback 2006, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-224742-9, Pub date April 25, 2006, paperback
A Feast for Crows : Though A Feast for Crows was the first novel in the sequence to debut at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list, it received more negative reviews in comparison with the previous novels in the series. Martin's decision to halve the plot in terms of character and location was highly controversial; many critics felt that this novel consisted of characters that people were less interested in. In the critic reviews aggregate of Bookmarks March/April 2006 issue, the book received a (4.0 out of 5) with a critical summary saying, "Though the book stands alone, readers will reap greater rewards by starting with the first of the series, A Game of Thrones". Publishers Weekly said, "Long-awaited doesn't begin to describe this fourth installment in bestseller Martin's staggeringly epic Song of Ice and Fire. [...]. This is not Act I Scene 4 but Act II Scene 1, laying groundwork more than advancing the plot, and it sorely misses its other half. The slim pickings here are tasty, but in no way satisfying." Salon.com's Andrew Leonard said in 2011, "I don't care how good a writer you are: If you subtract your three strongest characters from your tale, you severely undermine the basis for why readers fell under your spell in the first place. It didn't work. But there was also a sense in A Feast of Crows that Martin had lost his way. The characters whose stories he did tell wandered back and forth across a landscape devastated by war and oncoming winter, but didn't seem to be headed anywhere in particular." Remy Verhoeve of The Huffington Post noted in their 2011 A Dance with Dragons review that the fifth volume had to "repair some of the damage done by A Feast for Crows, which frankly felt as if it was written by a ghost writer at times." Both books had "the same structural problems", being "sprawling and incoherent", and in her opinion Feast has the less interesting characters. The Atlantic's Rachael Brown said in their A Dance With Dragons review that Feast was "bleak and plodding" and "sorely missed" Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, and Jon Snow.
A Feast for Crows : Hugo Award – Best Novel (nominated) – (2006) Locus Award for Fantasy – Best Novel (nominated) – (2006) British Fantasy Award – Best Novel (nominated) – (2006) Quill Award – Best Novel (Science Fiction & Fantasy) (nominated) – (2006)
A Feast for Crows : Zimmerman, W. Frederick (December 15, 2005). Unauthorized A Feast for Crows Analysis (Paperback). Nimble Books. ISBN 0-9765406-1-4.
A Feast for Crows : Official website of author George R. R. Martin A Feast for Crows title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Feast for Crows at the Internet Book List
A Game of Thrones : A Game of Thrones is the first novel in A Song of Ice and Fire, a series of fantasy novels by American author George R. R. Martin. It was first published on August 1, 1996. The novel won the 1997 Locus Award and was nominated for both the 1997 Nebula Award and the 1997 World Fantasy Award. The novella Blood of the Dragon, comprising the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel, won the 1997 Hugo Award for Best Novella. In January 2011, the novel became a New York Times Bestseller and reached No. 1 on the list in July 2011. In the novel, recounting events from various points of view, Martin introduces the plot-lines of the noble houses of Westeros, the Wall, and the Targaryens. The novel has inspired several spin-off works, including several games. It is also the namesake and basis for the first season of Game of Thrones, an HBO television series that premiered in April 2011. A paperback TV tie-in re-edition was published in March 2013, titled Game of Thrones.
A Game of Thrones : A Game of Thrones follows three principal storylines simultaneously.
A Game of Thrones : Each chapter concentrates on the third-person limited point of view of a single character; the book presents the perspective of eight main characters. Additionally, a minor character provides the prologue. Chapter headings indicate the perspective. Prologue: Will, a man of the Night's Watch. Lord Eddard "Ned" Stark, Warden of the North and Lord of Winterfell, Hand of the King. Lady Catelyn Stark, of House Tully, wife of Eddard Stark. Sansa Stark, elder daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. Arya Stark, younger daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. Bran Stark, middle son of Eddard and Catelyn Stark. Jon Snow, illegitimate son of Eddard Stark. Tyrion Lannister, a dwarf, brother of the twins Queen Cersei and Jaime, son of Lord Tywin Lannister. Princess Daenerys Targaryen, exiled daughter of the former king Aerys and sister of Aerys's heir Viserys. In the later books, certain viewpoint characters are added while others are removed.
A Game of Thrones : Throughout the novel, characters are often faced with decisions that match one redeemable trait against another. The Guardian outlines characters who are frequently "forced to choose between their love for those close to them and the greater interests of honour, duty and the realm." In Westeros, Ned ultimately decides to venture south with Robert, leaving much of his family in Winterfell. At the Wall, Jon wrestles with the predicament of joining his half-brother Robb in rebellion or staying with his sworn brothers in the Night's Watch. Daenerys has issue with the Dothraki treatment of those they conquered in Essos. These conflicts characters encounter oftentimes reflect inconsistent decision making. Catelyn initially is overwhelmed by grief and does not leave Bran's bedside while he is comatose, ignoring her political responsibilities, choosing family over duty. But soon after, Catelyn leaves Bran and her family for King's Landing to inform Ned of potential Lannister treason, effectively displaying a more duty fulfilling role. Family, duty, and honor play major roles in conflicts that arise in the story arc, and qualities traditionally categorized as noble oppose each other in resolution. Character decision conflicts and consequence analysis are particular to how Martin wants to portray fantasy. Martin characteristically deviates from the traditional fantasy model and clear-cut lines of good versus evil. Martin reflects: "I think the battle between good and evil is fought largely within the individual human heart, by the decisions that we make. It's not like evil dresses up in black clothing and you know, they're really ugly". This viewpoint characterizes the book and is evident in the actions of several different families which frequently have conflicts with each other. The Starks' and Lannisters' conflict is a central component of the novel, and the reader receives points of view from both sides. Likewise, Daenerys' storyline develops around the Targaryen's upheaval in Westeros, in which the Starks played a significant role. Martin argues: Having multiple viewpoints is crucial to the grayness of the characters. You have to be able to see the struggle from both sides, because real human beings in a war have all these processes of self-justification, telling ourselves why what we're doing is the right thing.
A Game of Thrones : Martin acknowledges several authors who lent their time and expertise during the writing of the novel: Sage Walker, Martin Wright, Melinda Snodgrass, Carl Keim, Bruce Baugh, Tim O'Brien, Roger Zelazny, Jane Lindskold, and Laura Mixon.
A Game of Thrones : The HarperCollins/Voyager 1996 edition was the British first edition. Its official publication date was earlier than that of the US Bantam edition, but Bantam went to print several months earlier to hand out copies at the American Booksellers Association (ABA). The novel has been translated into many languages and published in multiple editions in hardcover, paperback, e-book, and audio book form. In different languages, the number of books may not be the same. For Example, for the German Paperback Editions published by Blanvalet and later Penhaligon, the book and the other novels of the series were split in two. In June 2000, Meisha Merlin published a limited edition of the book, fully illustrated by Jeffrey Jones.
A Game of Thrones : A Game of Thrones and the subsequent novels in the A Song of Ice and Fire series have been adapted into an HBO television series, a comic book series, several card games, board games, video games, and other media.
A Game of Thrones : A Game of Thrones has received critical acclaim. Lauren K. Nathan of the Associated Press wrote that the book "grip[s] the reader from Page One" and is set in a "magnificent" fantasy world that is "mystical, but still believable." Steve Perry told readers of The Oregonian that the plot is "complex and fascinating" and the book is "rich and colorful" with "all the elements of a great fantasy novel". Writing in The Washington Post, John H. Riskind commented that "many fans of sword-and-sorcery will enjoy the epic scope of this book" but felt that the book "suffers from one-dimensional characters and less than memorable imagery." Phyllis Eisenstein of the Chicago Sun-Times wrote that, although the book uses many generic fantasy tropes, Martin's approach is "so refreshingly human and intimate that it transcends them." She described it as "an absorbing combination of the mythic, the sweepingly historical, and the intensely personal." John Prior, writing in the San Diego Union-Tribune, called Martin's writing "strong and imaginative, with plenty of Byzantine intrigue and dynastic struggle", and compared it to Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time books, "though much darker, with no comedy or romance to relieve the nastiness." On November 5, 2019, the BBC News listed A Game of Thrones on its list of the 100 most influential novels.
A Game of Thrones : Locus Award – Best Novel (Fantasy) (Won) – (1997) World Fantasy Award – Best Novel (Nominated) – (1997) Hugo Award – Best Novella for Blood of the Dragon (Won) – (1997) Nebula Award – Best Novel (Nominated) – (1997) Ignotus Award – Best Novel (Foreign) (Won) – (2003)
A Game of Thrones : A Game of Thrones title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Game of Thrones at the Internet Book List
The Princess and the Queen : The Princess and the Queen, or, the Blacks and the Greens is an epic fantasy novella by American novelist George R. R. Martin, published in the 2013 Tor Books anthology Dangerous Women. The novella is presented in the form of writings by the fictional historian Archmaester Gyldayn, who is also the "author" of Martin's 2014 novella The Rogue Prince, a direct prequel to The Princess and the Queen. The plot of both The Princess and the Queen and The Rogue Prince is later expanded further in the 2018 novel Fire & Blood, which also spawned a television series in 2022. A spin-off of Martin's famed A Song of Ice and Fire novel series, The Princess and the Queen is set about 200 years before the events of A Game of Thrones (1996), and chronicles the "continent-burning warfare" of a Targaryen war of succession that explodes between heir to the throne Crown Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen (whose supporters are known as "the blacks") and her stepmother Queen Alicent Hightower (supported by "the greens"), who conspired to usurp Rhaenyra and have her half-brother Aegon (Alicent's eldest son) crowned on the Iron Throne instead. The resulting civil war is called the "Dance of the Dragons" due to the active involvement of dragonriders, and is designated the primary cause for the extinction of dragons in Westeros before the time of A Song of Ice and Fire.
The Princess and the Queen : When King Viserys I Targaryen dies, his second wife and widow, Queen Alicent of House Hightower, conspires a coup and has their eldest son Prince Aegon crowned as King Aegon II, before Viserys' daughter and only surviving child from his first marriage, Crown Princess Rhaenyra, can inherit the Iron Throne herself. Although Rhaenyra is the king's oldest child and had been named heir apparent years before, Queen Alicent and her supporters declare Rhaenyra unfit to rule and argue that, as a woman, Rhaenyra should be placed after Alicent's male children in the line of succession. After Rhaenyra is crowned Queen by her followers at the Targaryen ancestral seat of Dragonstone, her second born son Lucerys Velaryon and King Aegon's younger brother Aemond both take their dragons to seek the support of Lord Borros Baratheon of Storm's End. However, Lucerys and his dragon Arrax are attacked and killed over the Shipbreaker Bay by Aemond, who rides the much larger dragon Vhagar. In revenge, Rhaenyra's uncle and second husband, Prince Daemon, has Aegon II's elder son and heir Jaehaerys murdered by a pair of assassins. Soon both branches of the Targaryen royal line are at open war, rallying various noble houses supporting Rhaenyra (known as "The Blacks", a colour she often wore) against those supporting Aegon II and Queen Alicent (known as "The Greens", a colour she often wore). The war of succession – known as the "Dance of the Dragons" due to both sides having dragonriders – is the first major civil war of the Targaryen dynasty, and sees many Targaryen kinsmen, dragons and noblemen killed in combat, including Rhaenyra's eldest son, Jacaerys Velaryon. After some early Greens victories, Rhaenyra successfully turns the tide and assaults the capital, King's Landing, expelling Aegon II and captures large numbers of Greens members. However, the harsh taxes she then enacts (due to the treasury being secretly emptied by the Greens supporters), as well as her vengeful lust, paranoia and subsequent summary executions of perceived traitors, trigger a violent riot in the capital, during which angry mobs fearful of dragons storm the Dragonpit and kill most of the remaining dragons (as well as Joffrey Velaryon, her last surviving son from her first marriage to Laenor Velaryon), and she is forced to flee after just half a year on the throne. Eventually, Aegon II's two brothers, Aemond and Daeron, as well as his only remaining son, Maelor, are all killed. Aegon himself is rendered crippled and no longer fertile; likewise, by the ending moments of the war, Rhaenyra's three eldest children have all been killed along with her husband Prince Daemon. Rhaenyra is betrayed and captured by Aegon II, who brutally executes her by having his crippled dragon Sunfyre burn her alive before devouring her in six bites. The war continues after Rhaenyra's death, with her Blacks supporters rallying behind her fourth son, Aegon the Younger, despite the latter being imprisoned as a hostage by Aegon II. As the last known living male member of House Targaryen, Aegon the Younger is named by Aegon II as his heir, but is constantly threatened with execution by his uncle. However, after the Greens' last army is annihilated at the Battle of the Kingsroad, the stubbornly defiant Aegon II is assassinated by his own men, who then surrender unconditionally to the Blacks. Aegon the Younger is freed and crowned as King Aegon III, ending the conflict. It is a pyrrhic victory, as House Targaryen has lost virtually all of their dragons. The surviving dragons either go feral and/or die out during the reign of Aegon III, earning him the infamous nickname "Dragonbane". House Targaryen, continuing through Rhaenyra's direct family line, reigns for the next 200 years, until it is overthrown by Robert Baratheon.
The Princess and the Queen : According to George R. R. Martin, the Dance of the Dragons, the main conflict portrayed in The Princess and the Queen, was inspired by the 15-year-long civil war in High Medieval England known as The Anarchy, where Empress Matilda, the daughter and heir of Henry I of England, fought a protracted war of succession against her cousin Stephen from 1138 to 1153 AD, which eventually ended with the ascension of Matilda's son Henry II, the founder of the Plantagenet dynasty. The story was to be included in the companion book The World of Ice & Fire but was removed because the book was becoming too long for the original concept of a fully illustrated book. It and several other stories appeared in abridged versions in other anthologies.
The Princess and the Queen : Entertainment Weekly called the 35,000-word novella "a great demonstration of Martin's ability to dramatize the slippery complexities of power: how evil begets heroism, how heroes become villains". The Princess and the Queen was nominated for a 2014 Locus Award.
The Princess and the Queen : An HBO series adaptation of The Princess and the Queen, called House of the Dragon, began airing from August 21, 2022. House of the Dragon is a prequel to Game of Thrones covering the Dance of Dragons civil war, and incorporates additional material from Fire and Blood and the expanded text "The Dying of Dragons." The show is produced by Martin, Vince Gerardis, Ryan Condal, and Miguel Sapochnik; in addition, the latter two are its showrunners. The sixth episode of the pilot season of House of the Dragon is also named after the novella.
The Princess and the Queen : The Rogue Prince (2014), the prequel to The Princess and the Queen Fire & Blood (2018), the expanded novel incorporating the story of The Princess and the Queen == References ==
The Rogue Prince : The Rogue Prince, or, a King's Brother is a novelette by George R. R. Martin, published in the 2014 Bantam Spectra anthology Rogues. It is set on the continent of Westeros of Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series, hundreds of years before the events of A Game of Thrones (1996) during the reign of King Viserys I Targaryen. The Rogue Prince serves as a prequel to Martin's earlier 2013 novella The Princess and the Queen and focuses on the reign of Viserys I, from his grandfather Jaehaerys I Targaryen's death to his own. It chronicles the evolving complicated relationship between Viserys and his charismatic-yet-unruly younger brother Daemon, who is the titular antihero, and Viserys' plan for succession to his daughter from his first marriage even though he has a son from his second marriage, which cements a rivalry within the Targaryens that plays out in The Princess and the Queen. The work is presented as the writing of the fictional Archmaester Gyldayn, also the "author" of Martin's The Princess and the Queen.
The Rogue Prince : Near the end of King Jaehaerys I's long reign, a succession crisis emerges when his second son Baelon dies, leading to a Great Council to decide who should be the old king's heir. Jaehaerys's elder son Aemon also died some years before, leaving behind a daughter named Rhaenys — but there are many who prefer Baelon's 26-year-old son Viserys, due to his gender. Despite standard succession law that the elder brother's children should come first, Viserys wins the council by a ratio of twenty votes to one, and is declared the rightful heir. On the old king's death two years later, Viserys succeeds him on the Iron Throne. Rhaenys's husband is the powerful lord Corlys Velaryon, and this estranges the Velaryons from the royal court. King Viserys, married to Aemma of House Arryn, names his daughter Rhaenyra as his successor, ahead of his hot-tempered and mercurial younger brother Daemon (the titular "rogue prince"). This decision contradicts the new inheritance law established at the Great Council, which should put a male heir ahead of any female one, but Daemon's reputation is so scandalous that Viserys's powerful advisor Otto Hightower eagerly goes along with it. Queen Aemma later dies in childbirth, to a son that lives only a day. Viserys later re-marries to Alicent Hightower, Otto's daughter, and they succeed in producing a male heir, Aegon; but Viserys never rescinds his choice of Rhaenyra to succeed him. The king and queen subsequently have a daughter (Helaena) and two more sons (Aemond and Daeron). As the years pass, a rivalry develops between Rhaenyra and her stepmother Alicent — and two rival court factions develop around each of them. At a major tournament, Rhaenyra appears wearing a distinctive Targaryen-black dress, while Alicent wears one of the green dresses she favors. The two rival factions start copying this clothing style, with Rhaenyra's followers wearing black, and the Alicent/Aegon camp wearing green — leading to the two groups being dubbed "the Blacks and the Greens". Meanwhile, the Velaryons remain as a third major faction, but excluded from power at the royal court. Due to his adventures in the far east, Corlys Velaryon is still one of the wealthiest men in Westeros — and eventually, the isolated Daemon gravitates to the Velaryon camp as well, by marrying Corlys and Rhaenys's daughter Laena (producing two daughters, Baela and Rhaena). Together, Daemon and Corlys launch a proxy war in the Stepstones island chain, raising an army of mercenaries to carve out territory from pirate enclaves — aided by the large Velaryon fleet, and Daemon's dragon Caraxes, who soon earns a reputation as "the Blood Wyrm", battle-hardened from all the blood he has spilled. Daemon is briefly crowned as the new king of the Stepstones (mostly ruling over pirates), but this makes other regional powers grow wary. After defeating Volantis to the east, the other southern Free Cities — Lys, Myr, and Tyrosh — set aside their differences to unite as a triple-alliance with a shared government, called "the Kingdom of the Three Daughters" of Valyria or "the Triarchy". The Triarchy at the eastern end of the island chain allies with independent Dorne at the western end of the Stepstones, and in subsequent years they apply more and more pressure on Daemon's mini-kingdom until he tires of the conflict and withdraws to King's Landing. Meanwhile, the willful young Rhaenyra is infatuated with Ser Criston Cole of the kingsguard, but through unclear circumstances is later rumored to be in a relationship with Ser Harwin Strong. Pressured by her father, Rhaenyra eventually submits to an arranged marriage with her cousin Laenor Velaryon (son of Corlys, brother of Laena). Their marriage is unhappy, as Laenor is infamously an effete homosexual. Rhaenyra gives birth to three sons, but none of them have classic Targaryen features of silver-blonde hair and purple eyes — and a "coincidental" resemblance to Harwin Strong — which, combined with widespread rumors of Laenor's sexuality, leads the Greens to whisper persistent rumors that they are really bastards fathered by Harwin Strong. Animosity between Rhaenyra and Alicent also puts their children at odds with one another. In rapid succession, Laena dies after a stillbirth and then Laenor dies in a suspicious quarrel. At Laena's funeral, Rhaenyra's sons brawl with Alicent's son Aemond when he tries to claim Laena's dragon Vhagar: as the older Aemond begins to overpower them, one pulls out a knife, ending up in Aemond losing one eye, but succeeding in claiming Vhagar, the greatest living dragon. Not long after, the realm is shocked to learn that Rhaenyra and her uncle Daemon remarried to each other, without asking Viserys's leave. This unites the estranged Velaryons with Rhaenyra's faction of Blacks, and they become one of her biggest supporters against the Greens. They have two sons — another Aegon and Viserys. Alicent's son Aegon also marries his sister Helaena. They produce twins, Jaehaerys and Jaehaera, and a third child named Maelor. The Hightowers, meanwhile, remain the biggest supporters of Alicent's Aegon, and her father Otto becomes Hand of the King for many years. The Hightowers increasingly whisper that according to the Great Council at the death of Jaehaerys I, a male heir should come ahead of a female one, and thus Aegon should inherit throne ahead of Rhaenyra — even though Otto himself once ignored that precedent of the council, when he wanted young Rhaenyra to be heir ahead of her uncle Daemon (a hypocrisy not lost on the Blacks). Rhaenyra's followers also counter that had the Great Council followed standard inheritance, Aemon’s daughter Rhaenys should still have inherited ahead of Baelon's son Viserys, in which case Rhaenyra's sons with Laenor would rank ahead of Aegon anyway (which only encourages the Greens to double-down on the accusation that they are really bastards). The subsequent death of King Viserys — in his bed, from old age and poor health — sets the stage for The Princess and the Queen, and the outbreak of the Dance of the Dragons.
The Rogue Prince : The story was to be included in the companion book The World of Ice & Fire but was removed because the book was becoming too long for the original concept of a fully illustrated book. It and several other stories appeared in abridged versions in other anthologies.
The Rogue Prince : The Princess and the Queen Fire & Blood, the expanded "history" novel incorporating plots of both The Princess and the Queen and The Rogue Prince House of the Dragon, the HBO television series based on Fire & Blood
The Rogue Prince : McGovern, Bridget (June 3, 2014). "Feuding Targaryens: A Non-Spoiler Review of George R. R. Martin's The Rogue Prince, or, A King's Brother". Tor.com. Retrieved June 12, 2014.
The Sons of the Dragon : The Sons of the Dragon is a novella by George R. R. Martin, set in the fictional land of Westeros, the setting of Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series. The story commences about 270 years before the start of A Game of Thrones (1996). It centers on the death of Aegon I, known as "Aegon the Conqueror" for his bloody unification of the warring nations of Westeros, and his two sons: Aenys I, who succeeded him, and Maegor I, reviled as "Maegor the Cruel", in their respective successions to the throne thereafter, and the conflicts faced between them. The story concludes with the death of Maegor, and introduces the groundwork for its sequel, being about the life of his successor and nephew Jaehaerys I "the Conciliator", whose 55-year reign brought about an unprecedented age of peace to the Seven Kingdoms.
The Sons of the Dragon : As with his previous Westerosi "histories", including The World of Ice and Fire, The Rogue Prince and The Princess and the Queen, Martin wrote The Sons of the Dragon from the perspective of a fictional Westerosi scholar-physician, referred to in-universe as a "maester". Unlike the previous works, attributed to Maester Yandel and Archmaester Gyldayn, the maester of The Sons of the Dragon remains anonymous throughout the story. At the conclusion of the novella, the unnamed maester notes that the following history of the Targaryen family, concerning the life of Jaehaerys I, would be a "task for another maester".
The Sons of the Dragon : Following an early 2017 leak that revealed plans for the novella to be included in the anthology The Book of Swords (edited by Martin's longtime friend Gardner Dozois), Martin himself confirmed that the anthology was scheduled to be released on October 10, 2017, and confirmed that The Sons of the Dragon would be included. The story was derived from previously written lengthier material that Martin had prepared for the companion book The World of Ice & Fire, but was removed because the book was becoming too long for the original concept of a fully illustrated book. It and several other stories appeared in abridged versions in other anthologies. The story is included in full in Fire & Blood.
The Sons of the Dragon : The novella was released by Bantam Spectra in October 2017 in hardcover, paperback and audiobook formats, all as the final story in The Book of Swords anthology. The audiobook edition was narrated by Ralph Lister, who previously collaborated with Martin and Dozois as narrator for their 2012 anthology Down These Strange Streets. == References ==
A Storm of Swords : A Storm of Swords is the third of seven planned novels in the fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin. It was first published in the United Kingdom on August 8, 2000, with a United States edition following in November 2000. Its publication was preceded by a novella called Path of the Dragon, which collects some of the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel into a single book. At its publication, A Storm of Swords was the longest novel in the series. It was so long that in the UK, Ireland, Australia, Serbia, and Israel, its paperback edition was split in half, Part 1 being published as Steel and Snow in June 2001 (with the one-volume cover) and Part 2 as Blood and Gold in August 2001 (with a specially commissioned new cover). The same division was used in the Polish and Greek editions. In France, the decision was made to cut the novel into four separate volumes. A Storm of Swords won the 2001 Locus Award, the 2002 Geffen Award for Best Novel, and was nominated for the 2001 Nebula Award for Best Novel. It was the first novel in the series to be nominated for the Hugo Award, among the two most prestigious science fiction and fantasy publishing awards. However, it lost to J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire novel. Meisha Merlin Publishing, which had previously issued limited, illustrated editions of both A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings, was planning to release a similar version for A Storm of Swords in two volumes; however, lengthy delays in the release of A Clash of Kings caused it to lose its publishing rights, which Subterranean Press picked up. This edition, illustrated by Charles Vess, was released in the summer of 2006. A Storm of Swords is also the name of the second expansion to the board game A Game of Thrones, released in July 2006. Approximately the first half of the novel was adapted for television as the third season of the HBO show Game of Thrones. In contrast, the second half became the basis for the series' fourth season and some elements for the series' fifth season.
A Storm of Swords : A Storm of Swords picks up the story slightly before the end of its predecessor, A Clash of Kings. The Seven Kingdoms of Westeros are still in the grip of the War of the Five Kings, wherein Joffrey Baratheon and his uncle Stannis Baratheon compete for the Iron Throne, while Robb Stark of the North and Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands declare their independence (Stannis's brother Renly Baratheon, the fifth "king", has already been killed). Meanwhile, a large host of wildlings, the tribes from beyond the Seven Kingdoms' northern border, approach the Wall that marks the border, under the leadership of Mance Rayder, the self-proclaimed "King Beyond the Wall", with only the undermanned Night's Watch in opposition. Finally, Daenerys Targaryen, the daughter of a deposed former king of Westeros and "mother" of the world's only living dragons, sails west, planning to retake her late father's throne.
A Storm of Swords : The tale is told through the eyes of ten main characters, plus a one-off prologue POV and a one-off epilogue POV character, for a total of 12 narrators. Prologue: Chett, a brother and hound-keeper of the Night's Watch Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer, and the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. Imprisoned by the Starks. Jon Snow, bastard son of Eddard Stark, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch Catelyn Stark, of House Tully, widow of Lord Eddard Stark, mother of Robb Stark Tyrion Lannister, youngest son of Tywin Lannister, a dwarf, brother of Jaime and Cersei Lannister Sansa Stark, eldest daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark Arya Stark, youngest daughter of Eddard and Catelyn Stark Bran Stark, son of Eddard and Catelyn Stark, heir to Winterfell and the North Samwell Tarly, cowardly son of Lord Randyll Tarly, a sworn brother of the Night's Watch Davos Seaworth, a smuggler turned knight in the service of King Stannis Baratheon Daenerys Targaryen, exiled Queen of Westeros, of the Targaryen dynasty Epilogue: Merrett Frey, a member of the numerous Frey family.
A Storm of Swords : On October 6, 2009, Martin noted on his blog that his manuscript for A Storm of Swords had been 1521 pages in length; the initial printed hardcover came in at 992 pages. Martin did not write the Red Wedding chapters until he had completed every other chapter of the book, as he felt it was "the hardest thing I ever wrote" and that he would rather delay writing until absolutely necessary. In contrast, he referred to the chapter of Joffrey's fatal wedding as "easy and fun to write" but that he nevertheless tried to instill empathy for the painful demise of this very unpopular character and "bring home the point that this, too, was a human being who was scared and terrified and then dead".
A Storm of Swords : Foreign language editions Bulgarian: Бард: "Вихър от Мечове" Catalan: Alfaguara: "Tempesta d'espases" "Storm of swords" Chinese: 重庆出版社(2007): "冰雨的风暴" ("Storm of Freezing Rain"). Czech: Talpress: "Bouře mečů" ("Storm of Swords") Danish: Gyldendal: "En Storm af Sværd" ("A Storm of Swords") Dutch: Luitingh-Sijthoff: "Een storm van zwaarden" ("A Storm of Swords") Estonian: Two volumes, hardcover, Varrak (2010, 2011): "Mõõkade maru. Teras ja lumi" (A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow"), "Mõõkade maru. Veri ja kuld" ("A Storm of Swords: Blood and Gold") Finnish: Kirjava: "Miekkamyrsky" ("Swordstorm") French: Four volumes (Hardcover: Pygmalion (2001, 2002, 2003); paperback: J'ai Lu (2003, 2004)): "Les brigands" (hardcover) / "Intrigues à Port-Réal" (paperback), "L'épée de feu", "Les Noces Pourpres", "La loi du Régicide" ("The robbers/Intrigues in King's Landing", "The sword of fire", "The Red Wedding", "The law of the kingslayer".) German: Single volume, Fantasy Productions (2005): "Schwertgewitter" ("Sword Storm"). Two volumes, Blanvalet (2001, 2002): "Sturm der Schwerter", "Die Königin der Drachen" ("Storm of Swords", "The Queen of Dragons"). Greek: Two volumes, Anubis: "Παγωμένες Λεπίδες", "Ματωμένο Χρυσάφι" ("Frozen Blades","Bloody Gold") Hebrew: "סופת החרבות חלק א - פלדה ושלג, סופת החרבות חלק ב - דם וזהב" ("Storm of swords - Steel and snow","Storm of swords - blood and gold") Hungarian: Alexandra Könyvkiadó: "Kardok vihara" ("Storm of Swords") Indonesian: Fantasious: "Amukan Baja" ("Steel's Fury") Italian: Three volumes, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore (2002, 2003, 2004): "Tempesta di spade", "I fiumi della guerra", "Il Portale delle Tenebre" ("A Storm of Swords", "The Rivers of War", "The Gate of Darkness"). Japanese: Three volumes, hardcover : Hayakawa (2006-7), paperback : Hayakawa (2012): "剣嵐の大地" ("The Land of the Sword Storm") I, II and III Korean: Eun Haeng Namu Publishing Co. : "성검의 폭풍" ("Storm of Holy Swords") Lithuanian: Alma Littera "Kardų audra" ("A Storm of Swords"). Norwegian: Two volumes, Vendetta (2013): "Stål og snø: en sang om is og ild, bok 3, del 1", "Blod og Gull: en sang om is og ild, bok 3, del 2" ("Steel and Snow: A Song of Ice and Fire, book 3, part 1, Blood and Gold: A Song of Ice and Fire, book 3, part 2)" Polish: Two volumes, Zysk i S-ka: "Nawałnica mieczy:Stal i Śnieg (I)", "Nawałnica mieczy: Krew i Złoto(II)" (A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow", "A Storm of Swords: Blood and Gold") Brazilian Portuguese: Leya: "A Tormenta de Espadas" ("The Storm of Swords") European Portuguese: Two Volumes, Saída de Emergência: "A Tormenta de Espadas" ("A Storm of Swords"), "A Glória dos Traidores" ("The Betrayer's Glory") Romanian: Nemira: "Iureșul săbiilor" Russian: AST: "Буря мечей" ("Storm of Swords"). Serbian: Two volumes, Лагуна: "Олуја мачева Део први: Челик и снег"(A Storm of Swords First part: "Steel and snow"), "Олуја мачева Део други: Крв и Злато" (A Storm of Swords Second part: "Blood and Gold" ) Slovakia: Two volumes, Tatran: "Búrka mečov 1: Oceľ a sneh", "Búrka mečov 2: Krv a zlato" ("A Storm of Swords Part I: Steel and snow", "A Storm of Swords Part II: Blood and Gold") Slovenian: Vihra mečev ("A Storm of Swords") Spanish: Two volumes, Gilgamesh (2005): "Tormenta de espadas I", "Tormenta de espadas II" ("Storm of Swords I", "Storm of Swords II"). Swedish: Forum: "Svärdets makt" ("The Might of the Sword") Turkish: Two volumes, Epsilon Yayınevi: "Buz ve Ateşin Şarkısı III: Kılıçların Fırtınası - Kısım I & Kılıçların Fırtınası - Kısım II" ("A Storm of Swords") Ukrainian: KM Publishing (2015): "Буря мечів" ("A Storm of Swords") Vietnamese: Three Volumes: "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3A: Sự trở lại của Ngoại nhân", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3B: Nước mắt Sói Tuyết", "Trò Chơi Vương Quyền 3C: Tử Hôn". ("Game of Thrones 3A: Return of the Others", "Game of Thrones 3B: Tears of Direwolf", "Game of Thrones 3C: Purple Wedding")
A Storm of Swords : Publishers Weekly said the third volume was "one of the more rewarding examples of gigantism in contemporary fantasy. [...] The complexity of characters such as Daenerys, Arya and the Kingslayer will keep readers turning even the vast number of pages contained in this volume, for the author, like Tolkien or Jordan, makes us care about their fates. Those two fantasy greats are also evoked by Martin's ability to convey such sensual experiences as the heat of wildfire, the chill of ice, the smell of the sea and the sheer gargantuan indigestibility of the medieval banquet at its most excessive. Perhaps this saga doesn't go as far beyond the previous bounds of high fantasy as some claim, but for most readers it certainly goes far enough to command their attention." Martin was nominated for the 2001 Hugo Award for Best Novel, but lost to J. K. Rowling for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Afterwards he made this comment about his fans: "Eat your heart out, Rowling. Maybe you have billions of dollars and my Hugo, but you don't have readers like these."
A Storm of Swords : Hugo Award – Best Novel (Nominated) – (2001) Locus Award – Best Novel (Fantasy) (Won) – (2001) Nebula Award – Best Novel (Nominated) – (2001) Geffen Award – Best Fantasy Book (Won) – (2002) Ignotus Award – Best Novel (Foreign) (Won) – (2006)
A Storm of Swords : A Wiki Of Ice And Fire Wiki dedicated to A Song of Ice and Fire A Storm of Swords title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database A Storm of Swords at the Internet Book List A Storm of Swords at Worlds Without End The Real Red Wedding at TheVintageNews.com The Real Red Wedding Archived 2020-06-17 at the Wayback Machine at FactBehindFiction.com The Real Red Wedding at DenOfGeek.com
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg is a series of fantasy novellas by George R. R. Martin, set in the world of his A Song of Ice and Fire novels. They follow the adventures of "Dunk" (the future Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Ser Duncan the Tall) and "Egg" (the future King Aegon V Targaryen), some 90 years before the events of the novels. Three novellas have been published – The Hedge Knight (1998), The Sworn Sword (2003), and The Mystery Knight (2010) – and Martin has stated his intention to continue the series. A collection of the existing three novellas, with illustrations by Gary Gianni, was published as A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms on October 6, 2015.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The first novella was originally published August 25, 1998, in the Legends anthology, edited by Robert Silverberg. The story was later adapted into a six-issue comic book limited series by Ben Avery, drawn by Mike S. Miller, produced by Roaring Studios (now Dabel Brothers Productions) and published by Image Comics and Devil's Due between August 2003 and May 2004. Devil's Due published the complete limited series as a graphic novel in June 2004. Following the termination of the partnership between Dabel Brothers and Devil's Due, the graphic novel has been republished in various editions.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The second novella was published in 2003 in the Legends II anthology, also edited by Robert Silverberg. The story has been adapted into a graphic novel by Ben Avery and drawn by Mike S. Miller, in cooperation with publisher and distributor Marvel Comics. The first comic was released on June 20, 2007, and the graphic novel was released on June 18, 2008.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The third novella was published in 2010 in the anthology Warriors, edited by George R. R. Martin and Gardner Dozois. Like The Sworn Sword, the book takes place during the reign of Aerys I and the aftermath of the Blackfyre Rebellion is examined in more detail.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Martin has said that he would like to write a number of these stories (varying from six to twelve from interview to interview) covering the entire lives of these two characters. In 2011 he talked about working on the fourth novella, which was originally to be included in the anthology Dangerous Women, and a year after that it and the three previously published Dunk and Egg tales were to be collected and published in the U.S. by Bantam Spectra as a stand-alone fix-up novel. The working title of the fourth novella was The She-Wolves of Winterfell. As of late 2013, work on the story has been postponed while Martin completes The Winds of Winter. In April 2014, Martin also announced that he had roughed out another Dunk and Egg story with the working title The Village Hero which would be set in the Riverlands. He noted that he was not sure which of these two would be completed first. In 2015, Martin noted that in addition to She-Wolves and The Village Hero he had notes and fairly specific ideas for a number of further installments, including The Sellsword, The Champion, The Kingsguard, and The Lord Commander, taking the planned series total to as many as nine novellas.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : The novellas were adapted as comic books which were reprinted as graphic novels: Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2005). The Hedge Knight (2nd ed.). Dabel Brothers. ISBN 978-0-9764011-0-0. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S.; Crowell, Mike (2008). The Sworn Sword. Marvel. ISBN 978-0-7851-2650-8. Martin, George R.R.; Avery, Ben; Miller, Mike S. (2017). The Mystery Knight. Bantam. ISBN 978-0345549396. Martin wrote in 2014 that film or TV adaptations of the novellas are being discussed. He suggested that because HBO owns the TV rights to the setting of Westeros (if not to the characters of the novellas), it would be preferable to have HBO adapt the novellas as well. On January 21, 2021, Variety reported that an adaptation of the Tales of Dunk and Egg series, a prequel to the events of Game of Thrones, is in early development on HBO. It was given a straight to series order on April 12, 2023. The show will star Peter Claffey and Dexter Sol Ansell as the titular characters. Filming began in Belfast, Northern Ireland in June 2024.
Tales of Dunk and Egg : Tales of Dunk and Egg at the Internet Book List Review and interview on suvudu.com Hudson, Laura (August 7, 2007). "George R. R. Martin's Adventures in Comics Part 1". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014. Hudson, Laura (August 14, 2007). "Talking with George R. R. Martin Part 2". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved August 5, 2014.
The Winds of Winter : The Winds of Winter is the planned sixth novel in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American writer George R. R. Martin. The manuscript is expected to be over 1,500 pages in length. Its writing started no later than 2010, and it has been delayed several times, such that Martin has refrained from making further hard estimates for the novel's final release date. Martin stated in October 2022 that he had completed approximately three quarters of the novel, estimating that he had written approximately 1,100 to 1,200 pages, and had roughly 400 to 500 pages left. He gave a similar estimate in November 2023, saying that he was "struggling" with the manuscript.
The Winds of Winter : Martin stated in a 2012 interview that The Winds of Winter and the following book A Dream of Spring will take readers farther north than any of the previous books, and the Others will appear in the book. The previous installment, A Dance with Dragons, covered less story than Martin intended, excluding at least one planned large battle sequence and leaving several character threads ending in cliffhangers. Martin intends to resolve these storylines "very early" in The Winds of Winter, saying "I'm going to open with the two big battles that I was building up to, the battle in the ice and the battle at Meereen—the battle of Slaver's Bay. And then take it from there." A Victarion Greyjoy chapter will begin five minutes after the end of A Dance with Dragons, taking place on the eve of the Ironborn's arrival in Slaver's Bay. Arianne Martell sample chapters that Martin released on his website showed her heading for Griffin's Roost to see the young man who is calling himself Aegon Targaryen. At Guadalajara International Book Fair 2016, Martin gave some clues about the dark nature of The Winds of Winter: "I've been telling you for 20 years that winter was coming. Winter is the time when things die, and cold and ice and darkness fill the world, so this is not going to be the happy feel-good that people may be hoping for. Some of the characters [are] in very dark places. .... Things get worse before they get better, so things are getting worse for a lot of people."
The Winds of Winter : Martin has confirmed that the following characters have point-of-view chapters in The Winds of Winter: Sansa Stark: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010, and one sample chapter titled Alayne appeared on Martin's website in April 2015. Arya Stark: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010, and one sample chapter titled Mercy appeared on Martin's website in March 2014. Arianne Martell: Two chapters were removed from A Dance with Dragons in June 2010. One sample chapter appeared on Martin's website in January 2013, and was read at Harbour Front Literaturfestival in June 2015. Martin read from both chapters at MystiCon in February 2016. In May 2016, Martin replaced the sample Sansa Stark chapter titled Alayne on his website from 2015 with the first Arianne Martell chapter he has read from at MystiCon. Aeron Greyjoy: One chapter was removed from A Dance with Dragons in July 2010. A chapter titled The Forsaken was read in May 2016 at Balticon. It was written in, or before, 2011 but there was no confirmation that this was the chapter removed from A Dance with Dragons. Theon Greyjoy: One sample chapter appeared on Martin's website in December 2011. It also appears as a teaser chapter at the end of the UK paperback edition of A Dance with Dragons (part two). Victarion Greyjoy: Portions of one chapter were first read at TIFF Bell Lightbox in March 2012. Tyrion Lannister: One chapter was read at Eastercon in April 2012, and another one at Worldcon in August 2013, the second of which was later published in the official iOS app on March 20, 2014. Barristan Selmy: One chapter was released as a teaser at the end of the 2013 U.S. paperback edition of A Dance with Dragons. In 2013, Martin read from a second chapter at Boskone. Cersei Lannister Jaime Lannister Brienne of Tarth Areo Hotah Jon Connington Bran Stark Martin confirmed that some of these previously released chapters have been rewritten. Martin confirmed that there are no new viewpoint characters intended for The Winds of Winter. He also stated that Samwell Tarly and Asha Greyjoy will appear in the novel, but did not elaborate if as viewpoint characters. He has also stated that non-viewpoint characters Lady Stoneheart, Quaithe, Euron Greyjoy and Rickon Stark will appear. He stated that Melisandre will return as viewpoint but did not state which novel her chapters will appear in. He teased at the 2014 San Diego Comic-Con that Jeyne Westerling, Robb Stark's widow, will appear in the prologue chapter, but did not reveal who will be the POV character.
The Winds of Winter : Official website of author George R. R. Martin
